 Plant for the separation of isotopes of "natural uranium", "depleted uranium" or"special fissile
         materials", and specially designed or prepared equipment and components therefor, as follows:
         a.    Plant specially designed for separating isotopes of "natural uranium", "depleted uranium", or
               "special fissile materials", as follows:
               1.     Gas centrifuge separation plant;
               2.     Gaseous diffusion separation plant;
               3.     Aerodynamic separation plant;
               4.     Chemical exchange separation plant;
               5.     Ion-exchange separation plant;
               6.     Atomic vapour "laser" isotope separation plant;
               7.     Molecular "laser" isotope separation plant;
               8.     Plasma separation plant;
               9.     Electro magnetic separation plant;
         b.    Gas centrifuges and assemblies and components, specially designed or prepared for gas
               centrifuge separation process, as follows:
               Technical Note:
               In 0B001.b. 'high strength-to-density ratio material' means any of the following:
                1.    Maraging steel capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 1,95 GPa or more;
                2.    Aluminium alloys capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 0,46 GPa or more; or
                3.    "Fibrous or filamentary materials" with a "specific modulus" of more than 3,18 x 106m
                     and a "specific tensile strength" greater than 7,62 x 104 m;
               1.    Gas centrifuges;
               2.     Complete rotor assemblies;
               3.     Rotor tube cylinders with a wall thickness of 12 mm or less, a diameter of between 75 mm
                      and 650 mm, made from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials';
               4.     Rings or bellows with a wall thickness of 3 mm or less and a diameter of between 75 mm
                      and 650 mm and designed to give local support to a rotor tube or to join a number together,
                      made from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials';
               5.     Baffles of between 75 mm and 650 mm diameter for mounting inside a rotor tube, made
                      from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials'.
               6.     Top or bottom caps of between 75 mm and 650 mm diameter to fit the ends of a rotor
                      tube, made from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials';
               7.     Magnetic suspension bearings as follows:
                      a.     Bearing assemblies consisting of an annular magnet suspended within a housing
                             made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6" containing a
                             damping medium and having the magnet coupling with a pole piece or second
                             magnet fitted to the top cap of the rotor;
                      b.     Active magnetic bearings specially designed or prepared for use with gas
                             centrifuges.
               8.     Specially prepared bearings comprising a pivot-cup assembly mounted on a damper;
               9.     Molecular pumps comprised of cylinders having internally machined or extruded helical
                      grooves and internally machined bores;
               10.    Ring-shaped motor stators for multiphase AC hysteresis (or reluctance) motors for
                      synchronous operation within a vacuum at a frequency of 600 Hz or more and a power of
                      40 VA or more;


                11.   Centrifuge housing/recipients to contain the rotor tube assembly of a gas centrifuge,
                        consisting of a rigid cylinder of wall thickness up to 30 mm with precision machined ends
                        that are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the cylinder’s longitudinal axis to
                        within 0,05  or less;
                12.   Scoops consisting of specially designed or prepared tubes for the extraction of UF6 gas
                        from within the rotor tube by a Pitot tube action and capable of being fixed to the central
                        gas extraction system;
                13.   Frequency changers (converters or inverters) specially designed or prepared to supply
                        motor stators for gas centrifuge enrichment, having all of the following characteristics,
                        and specially designed components therefor:
                        a.     A multiphase frequency output of 600 Hz or greater; and
                        b.     High stability (with frequency control better than 0,2%);
                14.   Shut-off and control valves as follows:
                        a.     Shut-off valves specially designed or prepared to act on the feed, product or tails
                            UF6 gaseous streams of an individual gas centrifuge;
                        b.     Bellows-sealed valves, shut-off or control, made of or protected by "materials
                            resistant to corrosion by UF6", with an inside diameter of 10 mm to 160 mm,
                            specially designed or prepared for use in main or auxiliary systems of gas
                            centrifuge enrichment plants;
        c.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for gaseous diffusion separation
                process, as follows:
                1.    Gaseous diffusion barriers made of porous metallic, polymer or ceramic "materials
                        resistant to corrosion by UF6" with a pore size of 10 to 100 nm, a thickness of 5 mm or
                        less, and, for tubular forms, a diameter of 25 mm or less;
                2.    Gaseous diffuser housings made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by
                        UF6";
                3.    Compressors or gas blowers with a suction volume capacity of 1 m 3/min or more of UF6,
                        with a discharge pressure up to 500 kPa, and having a pressure ratio of 10:1 or less, and
                        made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6";
                4.    Rotary shaft seals for compressors or blowers specified in 0B001.c.3. and designed for a
                        buffer gas in-leakage rate of less than 1 000 cm3/min.;
                5.    Heat exchangers made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6", and
                        designed for a leakage pressure rate of less than 10 Pa per hour under a pressure
                        differential of 100 kPa;
                6.    Bellows-sealed valves, manual or automated, shut-off or control, made of or protected by
                        "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";
        d.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for aerodynamic separation process,
                as follows:
                1.    Separation nozzles consisting of slit-shaped, curved channels having a radius of curvature
                        less than 1 mm, resistant to corrosion by UF6, and having a knife-edge contained within
                        the nozzle which separates the gas flowing through the nozzle into two streams;
                2.    Cylindrical or conical tubes, (vortex tubes), made of or protected by "materials resistant
                        to corrosion by UF6" and with one or more tangential inlets;
                3.    Compressors or gas blowers made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by
                        UF6", and rotary shaft seals therefor;
                4.    Heat exchangers made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";

                5.    Separation element housings, made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by
                        UF6" to contain vortex tubes or separation nozzles;
                6.    Bellows-sealed valves, manual or automated, shut-off or control, made of or protected by
                        "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6", with a diameter of 40 mm or more;
                7.    Process systems for separating UF6 from carrier gas (hydrogen or helium) to 1 ppm UF6
                        content or less, including:
                        a.     Cryogenic heat exchangers and cryoseparators capable of temperatures of 153K (-
                            120oC) or less;
                        b.     Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120oC) or less;
                        c.     Separation nozzle or vortex tube units for the separation of UF 6 from carrier gas;
                        d.     UF6 cold traps capable of freezing out UF6;
        e.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for chemical exchange separation
                process, as follows:
                1.    Fast-exchange liquid-liquid pulse columns with stage residence time of 30 s or less and
                        resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid (e.g. made of or protected by suitable plastic
                        materials such as fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers or glass);
                2.    Fast-exchange liquid-liquid centrifugal contactors with stage residence time of 30 s or
                        less and resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid (e.g. made of or protected by suitable
                        plastic materials such as fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers or glass);
                3.    Electrochemical reduction cells resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions, for
                        reduction of uranium from one valence state to another;
                4.    Electrochemical reduction cells feed equipment to take U +4 from the organic stream and,
                        for those parts in contact with the process stream, made of or protected by suitable
                        materials (e.g. glass, fluorocarbon polymers, polyphenyl sulphate, polyether sulfone and
                        resin-impregnated graphite);
                5.    Feed preparation systems for producing high purity uranium chloride solution consisting
                        of dissolution, solvent extraction and/or ion exchange equipment for purification and
                        electrolytic cells for reducing the uranium U+6 or U+4 to U+3;
                6.    Uranium oxidation systems for oxidation of U+3 to U+4;
        f.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for ion-exchange separation process,
                as follows:
                1.    Fast reacting ion-exchange resins, pellicular or porous macro-reticulated resins in which
                        the active chemical exchange groups are limited to a coating on the surface of an inactive
                        porous support structure, and other composite structures in any suitable form, including
                        particles or fibres, with diameters of 0,2 mm or less, resistant to concentrated hydrochloric
                        acid and designed to have an exchange rate half-time of less than 10 s and capable of
                        operating at temperatures in the range of 373 K (100oC) to 473 K (200oC);
                2.    Ion exchange columns (cylindrical) with a diameter greater than 1 000 mm, made of or
                        protected by materials resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid (e.g. titanium or
                        fluorocarbon plastics) and capable of operating at temperatures in the range of 373 K
                        (100oC) to 473 K (200oC) and pressures above 0,7 MPa;
                3.    Ion exchange reflux systems (chemical or electrochemical oxidation or reduction
                        systems) for regeneration of the chemical reducing or oxidizing agents used in ion
                        exchange enrichment cascades;
        g.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for laser-based separation processes
                using atomic vapour laser isotope separation, as follows:
                1.    Uranium metal vaporization systems designed to achieve a delivered power of 1 kW or
                        more on the target for use in laser enrichment;

                2.    Liquid or vapour uranium metal handling systems specially designed or prepared for
                        handling molten uranium, molten uranium alloys or uranium metal vapour for use in laser
                        enrichment, and specially designed components therefor;
                        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2A225.
                3.    Product and tails collector assemblies for collecting uranium metal in liquid or solid form,
                        made of or protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal
                        vapour or liquid, such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum;
                4.    Separator module housings (cylindrical or rectangular vessels) for containing the uranium
                        metal vapour source, the electron beam gun and the product and tails collectors;
                5.    "Lasers" or "laser" systems specially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium
                        isotopes with a spectrum frequency stabilisation for operation over extended periods of
                        time;
                        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A005 AND 6A205.
        h.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for laser-based separation processes
                using molecular laser isotope separation, as follows:
                1.    Supersonic expansion nozzles for cooling mixtures of UF 6 and carrier gas to 150 K (-
                        123oC) or less and made from "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";
                2.    Product or tails collector components or devices specially designed or prepared for
                        collecting uranium material or uranium tails material following illumination with laser
                        light, made of "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";
                3.    Compressors made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6", and rotary
                        shaft seals therefor;
                4.    Equipment for fluorinating UF5 (solid) to UF6 (gas);
                5.    Process systems for separating UF6 from carrier gas (e.g. nitrogen, argon or other gas)
                        including:
                        a.     Cryogenic heat exchangers and cryoseparators capable of temperatures of 153 K
                            (-120oC) or less;
                        b.     Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120oC) or less;
                        c.     UF6 cold traps capable of freezing out UF6;
                6.    "Lasers" or "laser" systems specially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium
                        isotopes with a spectrum frequency stabilisation for operation over extended periods of
                        time;
                        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A005 AND 6A205.
        i.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for plasma separation process, as
                follows:
                1.    Microwave power sources and antennae for producing or accelerating ions, with an output
                        frequency greater than 30 GHz and mean power output greater than 50 kW;
                2.    Radio frequency ion excitation coils for frequencies of more than 100 kHz and capable
                        of handling more than 40 kW mean power;
                3.    Uranium plasma generation systems;
                4.    Not used;
                5.    Product and tails collector assemblies for uranium metal in solid form,made of or
                        protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium vapour such as
                        yttria-coated graphite or tantalum;
                6.     Separator module housings (cylindrical) for containing the uranium plasma source,
                                radio-frequency drive coil and the product and tails collectors and made of a suitable
                                non-magnetic material (e.g. stainless steel);
        j.     Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for electromagnetic separation
                            process, as follows:
                            1.     Ion sources, single or multiple, consisting of a vapour source, ioniser, and beam
                                accelerator made of suitable non-magnetic materials (e.g. graphite, stainless steel, or
                                copper) and capable of providing a total ion beam current of 50 mA or greater;
                            2.     Ion collector plates for collection of enriched or depleted uranium ion beams, consisting
                                of two or more slits and pockets and made of suitable non-magnetic materials (e.g.
                                graphite or stainless steel);
                            3.     Vacuum housings for uranium electromagnetic separators made of non-magnetic
                                materials (e.g. stainless steel) and designed to operate at pressures of 0,1 Pa or lower;
                            4.     Magnet pole pieces with a diameter greater than 2 m;
                            5.     High voltage power supplies for ion sources, having all of the following characteristics:
                                a.     Capable of continuous operation;
                                b.     Output voltage of 20 000 V or greater;
                                c.     Output current of 1 A or greater; and
                                d.     Voltage regulation of better than 0,01% over a period of 8 hours;
                                N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A227.
                            6.     Magnet power supplies (high power, direct current) having all of the following
                                characteristics:
                                a.     Capable of continuous operation with a current output of 500 A or greater at a
                                        voltage of 100 V or greater; and
                                b.     Current or voltage regulation better than 0,01% over a period of 8 hours.
                                N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A226.