CATEGORY 0 - NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT
0A       Systems, Equipment and Components
0A001    "Nuclear reactors" and specially designed or prepared equipment and components therefor, as follows:
         a.    "Nuclear reactors";
         b.    Metal vessels, or major shop-fabricated parts therefor, including the reactor vessel head for a
               reactor pressure vessel, specially designed or prepared to contain the core of a "nuclear reactor";
         c.    Manipulative equipment specially designed or prepared for inserting or removing fuel in a
               "nuclear reactor";
         d.    Control rods specially designed or prepared for the control of the fission process in a "nuclear
               reactor", support or suspension structures therefor, rod drive mechanisms and rod guide tubes;
         e.    Pressure tubes specially designed or prepared to contain both fuel elements and the primary
               coolant in a "nuclear reactor";
         f.    Zirconium metal tubes or zirconium alloy tubes (or assembles of tubes) specially designed or
               prepared for use as fuel cladding in a "nuclear reactor", and in quantities exceeding 10 kg;
               N.B.     For zirconium pressure tubes see 0A001.e. and for calandria tubes see 0A001.h.
         g.    Coolant pumps or circulators specially designed or prepared for circulating the primary coolant
               of "nuclear reactors";
         h.    'Nuclear reactor internals' specially designed or prepared for use in a "nuclear reactor", including
               support columns for the core, fuel channels, calandria tubes, thermal shields, baffles, core grid
               plates, and diffuser plates;
               Technical Note:
               In 0A001.h. 'nuclear reactor internals' means any major structure within a reactor vessel which
               has one or more functions such as supporting the core, maintaining fuel alignment, directing
               primary coolant flow, providing radiation shields for the reactor vessel, and guiding in-core
               instrumentation.
         i.    Heat exchangers as follows:
               1.     Steam generators specially designed or prepared for the primary, or intermediate, coolant
                      circuit of a "nuclear reactor";
               2.     Other heat exchangers specially designed or prepared for use in the primary coolant
                      circuit of a "nuclear reactor";
               Note: 0A001.i. does not control heat exchangers for the supporting systems of the reactor, e.g.,
                     the emergency cooling system or the decay heat cooling system.
         j.    Neutron detectors specially designed or prepared for determining neutron flux levels within the
               core of a "nuclear reactor";
         k.    'External thermal shields' specially designed or prepared for use in a "nuclear reactor" for the
               reduction of heat loss and also for the containment vessel protection.
               Technical Note:
               In 0A001.k. 'external thermal shields' means major structures placed over the reactor vessel
               which reduce heat loss from the reactor and reduce temperature within the containment vessel.




                                                                                                                      25
        CATEGORY 0 NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT

0B       Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
0B001    Plant for the separation of isotopes of "natural uranium", "depleted uranium" or"special fissile
         materials", and specially designed or prepared equipment and components therefor, as follows:
         a.    Plant specially designed for separating isotopes of "natural uranium", "depleted uranium", or
               "special fissile materials", as follows:
               1.     Gas centrifuge separation plant;
               2.     Gaseous diffusion separation plant;
               3.     Aerodynamic separation plant;
               4.     Chemical exchange separation plant;
               5.     Ion-exchange separation plant;
               6.     Atomic vapour "laser" isotope separation plant;
               7.     Molecular "laser" isotope separation plant;
               8.     Plasma separation plant;
               9.     Electro magnetic separation plant;
         b.    Gas centrifuges and assemblies and components, specially designed or prepared for gas
               centrifuge separation process, as follows:
               Technical Note:
               In 0B001.b. 'high strength-to-density ratio material' means any of the following:
                                   1.    Maraging steel capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 1,95 GPa or more;
                                   2.    Aluminium alloys capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 0,46 GPa or more; or
                                   3.    "Fibrous or filamentary materials" with a "specific modulus" of more than 3,18 x 106m
                                          and a "specific tensile strength" greater than 7,62 x 104 m;
               1.    Gas centrifuges;
               2.     Complete rotor assemblies;
               3.     Rotor tube cylinders with a wall thickness of 12 mm or less, a diameter of between 75 mm
                      and 650 mm, made from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials';
               4.     Rings or bellows with a wall thickness of 3 mm or less and a diameter of between 75 mm
                      and 650 mm and designed to give local support to a rotor tube or to join a number together,
                      made from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials';
               5.     Baffles of between 75 mm and 650 mm diameter for mounting inside a rotor tube, made
                      from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials'.
               6.     Top or bottom caps of between 75 mm and 650 mm diameter to fit the ends of a rotor
                      tube, made from 'high strength-to-density ratio materials';
               7.     Magnetic suspension bearings as follows:
                      a.     Bearing assemblies consisting of an annular magnet suspended within a housing
                             made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6" containing a
                             damping medium and having the magnet coupling with a pole piece or second
                             magnet fitted to the top cap of the rotor;
                      b.     Active magnetic bearings specially designed or prepared for use with gas
                             centrifuges.
               8.     Specially prepared bearings comprising a pivot-cup assembly mounted on a damper;
               9.     Molecular pumps comprised of cylinders having internally machined or extruded helical
                      grooves and internally machined bores;
               10.    Ring-shaped motor stators for multiphase AC hysteresis (or reluctance) motors for
                      synchronous operation within a vacuum at a frequency of 600 Hz or more and a power of
                      40 VA or more;


                                                                                                                    26
CATEGORY 0 NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT

               11.   Centrifuge housing/recipients to contain the rotor tube assembly of a gas centrifuge,
                        consisting of a rigid cylinder of wall thickness up to 30 mm with precision machined ends
                        that are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the cylinder’s longitudinal axis to
                        within 0,05  or less;
               12.   Scoops consisting of specially designed or prepared tubes for the extraction of UF6 gas
                        from within the rotor tube by a Pitot tube action and capable of being fixed to the central
                        gas extraction system;
               13.   Frequency changers (converters or inverters) specially designed or prepared to supply
                        motor stators for gas centrifuge enrichment, having all of the following characteristics,
                        and specially designed components therefor:
                        a.     A multiphase frequency output of 600 Hz or greater; and
                        b.     High stability (with frequency control better than 0,2%);
               14.   Shut-off and control valves as follows:
                        a.     Shut-off valves specially designed or prepared to act on the feed, product or tails
                            UF6 gaseous streams of an individual gas centrifuge;
                        b.     Bellows-sealed valves, shut-off or control, made of or protected by "materials
                            resistant to corrosion by UF6", with an inside diameter of 10 mm to 160 mm,
                            specially designed or prepared for use in main or auxiliary systems of gas
                            centrifuge enrichment plants;
        c.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for gaseous diffusion separation
                process, as follows:
                1.    Gaseous diffusion barriers made of porous metallic, polymer or ceramic "materials
                        resistant to corrosion by UF6" with a pore size of 10 to 100 nm, a thickness of 5 mm or
                        less, and, for tubular forms, a diameter of 25 mm or less;
                2.    Gaseous diffuser housings made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by
                        UF6";
                3.    Compressors or gas blowers with a suction volume capacity of 1 m 3/min or more of UF6,
                        with a discharge pressure up to 500 kPa, and having a pressure ratio of 10:1 or less, and
                        made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6";
                4.    Rotary shaft seals for compressors or blowers specified in 0B001.c.3. and designed for a
                        buffer gas in-leakage rate of less than 1 000 cm3/min.;
                5.    Heat exchangers made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6", and
                        designed for a leakage pressure rate of less than 10 Pa per hour under a pressure
                        differential of 100 kPa;
                6.    Bellows-sealed valves, manual or automated, shut-off or control, made of or protected by
                        "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";
        d.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for aerodynamic separation process,
                as follows:
                1.    Separation nozzles consisting of slit-shaped, curved channels having a radius of curvature
                        less than 1 mm, resistant to corrosion by UF6, and having a knife-edge contained within
                        the nozzle which separates the gas flowing through the nozzle into two streams;
                2.    Cylindrical or conical tubes, (vortex tubes), made of or protected by "materials resistant
                        to corrosion by UF6" and with one or more tangential inlets;
                3.    Compressors or gas blowers made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by
                        UF6", and rotary shaft seals therefor;
                4.    Heat exchangers made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";

                5.    Separation element housings, made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by
                        UF6" to contain vortex tubes or separation nozzles;
                6.    Bellows-sealed valves, manual or automated, shut-off or control, made of or protected by
                        "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6", with a diameter of 40 mm or more;
                7.    Process systems for separating UF6 from carrier gas (hydrogen or helium) to 1 ppm UF6
                        content or less, including:
                        a.     Cryogenic heat exchangers and cryoseparators capable of temperatures of 153K (-
                            120oC) or less;
                        b.     Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120oC) or less;
                        c.     Separation nozzle or vortex tube units for the separation of UF 6 from carrier gas;
                        d.     UF6 cold traps capable of freezing out UF6;
        e.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for chemical exchange separation
                process, as follows:
                1.    Fast-exchange liquid-liquid pulse columns with stage residence time of 30 s or less and
                        resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid (e.g. made of or protected by suitable plastic
                        materials such as fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers or glass);
                2.    Fast-exchange liquid-liquid centrifugal contactors with stage residence time of 30 s or
                        less and resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid (e.g. made of or protected by suitable
                        plastic materials such as fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers or glass);
                3.    Electrochemical reduction cells resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions, for
                        reduction of uranium from one valence state to another;
                4.    Electrochemical reduction cells feed equipment to take U +4 from the organic stream and,
                        for those parts in contact with the process stream, made of or protected by suitable
                        materials (e.g. glass, fluorocarbon polymers, polyphenyl sulphate, polyether sulfone and
                        resin-impregnated graphite);
                5.    Feed preparation systems for producing high purity uranium chloride solution consisting
                        of dissolution, solvent extraction and/or ion exchange equipment for purification and
                        electrolytic cells for reducing the uranium U+6 or U+4 to U+3;
                6.    Uranium oxidation systems for oxidation of U+3 to U+4;
        f.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for ion-exchange separation process,
                as follows:
                1.    Fast reacting ion-exchange resins, pellicular or porous macro-reticulated resins in which
                        the active chemical exchange groups are limited to a coating on the surface of an inactive
                        porous support structure, and other composite structures in any suitable form, including
                        particles or fibres, with diameters of 0,2 mm or less, resistant to concentrated hydrochloric
                        acid and designed to have an exchange rate half-time of less than 10 s and capable of
                        operating at temperatures in the range of 373 K (100oC) to 473 K (200oC);
                2.    Ion exchange columns (cylindrical) with a diameter greater than 1 000 mm, made of or
                        protected by materials resistant to concentrated hydrochloric acid (e.g. titanium or
                        fluorocarbon plastics) and capable of operating at temperatures in the range of 373 K
                        (100oC) to 473 K (200oC) and pressures above 0,7 MPa;
                3.    Ion exchange reflux systems (chemical or electrochemical oxidation or reduction
                        systems) for regeneration of the chemical reducing or oxidizing agents used in ion
                        exchange enrichment cascades;
        g.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for laser-based separation processes
                using atomic vapour laser isotope separation, as follows:
                1.    Uranium metal vaporization systems designed to achieve a delivered power of 1 kW or
                        more on the target for use in laser enrichment;

                2.    Liquid or vapour uranium metal handling systems specially designed or prepared for
                        handling molten uranium, molten uranium alloys or uranium metal vapour for use in laser
                        enrichment, and specially designed components therefor;
                        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2A225.
                3.    Product and tails collector assemblies for collecting uranium metal in liquid or solid form,
                        made of or protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal
                        vapour or liquid, such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum;
                4.    Separator module housings (cylindrical or rectangular vessels) for containing the uranium
                        metal vapour source, the electron beam gun and the product and tails collectors;
                5.    "Lasers" or "laser" systems specially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium
                        isotopes with a spectrum frequency stabilisation for operation over extended periods of
                        time;
                        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A005 AND 6A205.
        h.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for laser-based separation processes
                using molecular laser isotope separation, as follows:
                1.    Supersonic expansion nozzles for cooling mixtures of UF 6 and carrier gas to 150 K (-
                        123oC) or less and made from "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";
                2.    Product or tails collector components or devices specially designed or prepared for
                        collecting uranium material or uranium tails material following illumination with laser
                        light, made of "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6";
                3.    Compressors made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6", and rotary
                        shaft seals therefor;
                4.    Equipment for fluorinating UF5 (solid) to UF6 (gas);
                5.    Process systems for separating UF6 from carrier gas (e.g. nitrogen, argon or other gas)
                        including:
                        a.     Cryogenic heat exchangers and cryoseparators capable of temperatures of 153 K
                            (-120oC) or less;
                        b.     Cryogenic refrigeration units capable of temperatures of 153 K (-120oC) or less;
                        c.     UF6 cold traps capable of freezing out UF6;
                6.    "Lasers" or "laser" systems specially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium
                        isotopes with a spectrum frequency stabilisation for operation over extended periods of
                        time;
                        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A005 AND 6A205.
        i.   Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for plasma separation process, as
                follows:
                1.    Microwave power sources and antennae for producing or accelerating ions, with an output
                        frequency greater than 30 GHz and mean power output greater than 50 kW;
                2.    Radio frequency ion excitation coils for frequencies of more than 100 kHz and capable
                        of handling more than 40 kW mean power;
                3.    Uranium plasma generation systems;
                4.    Not used;
                5.    Product and tails collector assemblies for uranium metal in solid form,made of or
                        protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium vapour such as
                        yttria-coated graphite or tantalum;
                6.     Separator module housings (cylindrical) for containing the uranium plasma source,
                                radio-frequency drive coil and the product and tails collectors and made of a suitable
                                non-magnetic material (e.g. stainless steel);
        j.     Equipment and components, specially designed or prepared for electromagnetic separation
                            process, as follows:
               1.     Ion sources, single or multiple, consisting of a vapour source, ioniser, and beam
                     accelerator made of suitable non-magnetic materials (e.g. graphite, stainless steel, or
                     copper) and capable of providing a total ion beam current of 50 mA or greater;
               2.     Ion collector plates for collection of enriched or depleted uranium ion beams, consisting
                     of two or more slits and pockets and made of suitable non-magnetic materials (e.g.
                     graphite or stainless steel);
               3.     Vacuum housings for uranium electromagnetic separators made of non-magnetic
                     materials (e.g. stainless steel) and designed to operate at pressures of 0,1 Pa or lower;
               4.     Magnet pole pieces with a diameter greater than 2 m;
               5.     High voltage power supplies for ion sources, having all of the following characteristics:
                      a.     Capable of continuous operation;
                      b.     Output voltage of 20 000 V or greater;
                      c.     Output current of 1 A or greater; and
                      d.     Voltage regulation of better than 0,01% over a period of 8 hours;
                      N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A227.
               6.     Magnet power supplies (high power, direct current) having all of the following
                     characteristics:
                      a.     Capable of continuous operation with a current output of 500 A or greater at a
                            voltage of 100 V or greater; and
                      b.     Current or voltage regulation better than 0,01% over a period of 8 hours.
                      N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A226.
0B002    Specially designed or prepared auxiliary systems, equipment and components as follows, for isotope
         separation plant specified in 0B001, made of or protected by "materials resistant to corrosion by UF 6":
         a.     Feed autoclaves, ovens or systems used for passing UF6 to the enrichment process;
         b.     Desublimers or cold traps, used to remove UF6 from the enrichment process for subsequent
                transfer upon heating;
         c.     Product and tails stations for transferring UF6 into containers;
         d.     Liquefaction or solidification stations used to remove UF6 from the enrichment process by
                compressing, cooling and converting UF6 to a liquid or solid form;
         e.     Piping systems and header systems specially designed or prepared for handling UF6 within
                gaseous diffusion, centrifuge or aerodynamic cascades;
         f.     Vacuum systems and pumps as follows:
                1.     Vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers or vacuum pumps having a suction capacity of
                       5 m3/minute or more;
                2.     Vacuum pumps specially designed for use in UF6 bearing atmospheres made of, or
                       protected by, "materials resistant to corrosion by UF6"; or
                3.     Vacuum systems consisting of vacuum manifolds, vacuum headers and vacuum pumps,
                       and designed for service in UF6-bearing atmospheres;



27
28
29
                                                                                                                    30
        CATEGORY 0 NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT

         g.     UF6 mass spectrometers/ion sources capable of taking on-line samples from UF6 gas streams
                and having all of the following characteristics:
                1.     Capable of measuring ions of 320 atomic mass units or greater and having a resolution of
                       better than 1 part in 320;
                2.     Ion sources constructed of or protected by nickel, nickel-copper alloys with a nickel
                       content of 60% or more by weight, or nickel-chrome alloys;
                3.     Electron bombardment ionisation sources; and
                4.     Having a collector system suitable for isotopic analysis.
0B003    Plant for the conversion of uranium and equipment specially designed or prepared therefor, as follows:
         a.     Systems for the conversion of uranium ore concentrates to UO 3;
         b.     Systems for the conversion of UO3 to UF6;
         c.     Systems for the conversion of UO3 to UO2;
         d.     Systems for the conversion of UO2 to UF4;
         e.     Systems for the conversion of UF4 to UF6;
         f.     Systems for the conversion of UF4 to uranium metal;
         g.     Systems for the conversion of UF6 to UO2;
         h.     Systems for the conversion of UF6 to UF4;
         i.     Systems for the conversion of UO2 to UCl4.
0B004    Plant for the production or concentration of heavy water, deuterium and deuterium compounds and
         specially designed or prepared equipment and components therefor, as follows:
         a.     Plant for the production of heavy water, deuterium or deuterium compounds, as follows:
                1.     Water-hydrogen sulphide exchange plants;
                2.     Ammonia-hydrogen exchange plants;
         b.     Equipment and components, as follows:
                1.     Water-hydrogen sulphide exchange towers with diameters of 1,5 m or more, capable of
                       operating at pressures greater than or equal to 2 MPa;
                2.     Single stage, low head (i.e., 0,2 MPa) centrifugal blowers or compressors for hydrogen
                       sulphide gas circulation (i.e., gas containing more than 70% by weight hydrogen sulphide,
                       H2S) with a throughput capacity greater than or equal to 56 m3/s when operating at
                       pressures greater than or equal to 1,8 MPa suction and having seals designed for wet H2S
                       service;
                3.     Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers greater than or equal to 35 m in height with
                       diameters of 1,5 m to 2,5 m capable of operating at pressures greater than 15 MPa;
                4.     Tower internals, including stage contactors, and stage pumps, including those which are
                       submersible, for heavy water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange
                       process;
                5.     Ammonia crackers with operating pressures greater than or equal to 3 MPa for heavy
                       water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process;
                6.     Infrared absorption analysers capable of on-line hydrogen/deuterium ratio analysis where
                       deuterium concentrations are equal to or greater than 90% by weight;
                7.     Catalytic burners for the conversion of enriched deuterium gas into heavy water utilizing
                       the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process;
                8.     Complete heavy water upgrade systems, or columns therefor, for the upgrade of heavy
                       water to reactor-grade deuterium concentration;


                                                                                                                   31
        CATEGORY 0 NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT

                9.     Ammonia synthesis converters or synthesis units specially designed or prepared for heavy
                       water production utilizing the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.
0B005    Plant specially designed for the fabrication of "nuclear reactor" fuel elements and specially designed or
         prepared equipment therefor.
         Technical Note:
         Specially designed or prepared equipment for the fabrication of "nuclear reactor" fuel elements
         includes equipment which:
                                   1.     Normally comes into direct contact with or directly processes or controls the production flow of
                                          nuclear materials;
                                   2.     Seals the nuclear materials within the cladding;
                                   3.     Checks the integrity of the cladding or the seal;
                                   4.     Checks the finish treatment of the sealed fuel; or
                                   5.     Is used for assembling reactor elements.


0B006    Plant for the reprocessing of irradiated "nuclear reactor" fuel elements, and specially designed or
         prepared equipment and components therefor.
         Note: 0B006 includes:
                                   a.    Plant for the reprocessing of irradiated "nuclear reactor" fuel elements including equipment and
                                          components which normally come into direct contact with and directly control the irradiated
                                          fuel and the major nuclear material and fission product processing streams;
                                   b.    Fuel element decladding equipment and chopping or shredding machines, i.e., remotely
                                          operated equipment to cut, chop or shear irradiated "nuclear reactor" fuel assemblies, bundles
                                          or rods;
                                   c.    Dissolver vessels or dissolvers employing mechanical devices specially designed or prepared
                                          for the dissolution of irradiated "nuclear reactor" fuel, which are capable of withstanding hot,
                                          highly corrosive liquids, and which can be remotely loaded, operated and maintained;
                                   d.    Solvent extractors, such as packed or pulsed columns, mixer settlers or centrifugal contractors,
                                          resistant to the corrosive effects of nitric acid and specially designed or prepared for use in a
                                          plant for the reprocessing of irradiated "natural uranium", "depleted uranium" or "special fissile
                                          materials";
                                   e.    Holding or storage vessels specially designed to be critically safe and resistant to the corrosive
                                          effects of nitric acid;
                                          Technical Note:
                                          Holding or storage vessels may have the following features:
                                                               1.    Walls or internal structures with a boron equivalent (calculated for all constituent
                                                                      elements as defined in the note to 0C004) of at least two per cent;
                                                               2.    A maximum diameter of 175 mm for cylindrical vessels; or
                                                               3.    A maximum width of 75 mm for either a slab or annular vessel.
                                   f.     Neutron measurement systems specially designed or prepared for integration and use with
                                          automated process control systems in a plant for the reprocessing of irradiated "natural
                                          uranium", "depleted uranium" or "special fissile materials".


0B007    Plant for the conversion of plutonium and equipment specially designed or prepared therefor, as follows:
         a.     Systems for the conversion of plutonium nitrate to oxide;
         b.     Systems for plutonium metal production.




                                                                                                                     32
        CATEGORY 0 NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT

0C       Materials
0C001    "Natural uranium" or "depleted uranium" or thorium in the form of metal, alloy, chemical compound or
         concentrate and any other material containing one or more of the foregoing;
         Note: 0C001 does not control the following:
                                   a.    Four grammes or less of "natural uranium" or "depleted uranium" when contained in a sensing
                                          component in instruments;
                                   b.    "Depleted uranium" specially fabricated for the following civil non-nuclear applications:
                                          1.     Shielding;
                                          2.     Packaging;
                                          3.     Ballasts having a mass not greater than 100 kg;
                                          4.     Counter-weights having a mass not greater than 100 kg;
                                   c.    Alloys containing less than 5% thorium;
                                   d.    Ceramic products containing thorium, which have been manufactured for non-nuclear use.
0C002    "Special fissile materials"
         Note: 0C002 does not control four "effective grammes" or less when contained in a sensing component
               in instruments.
0C003    Deuterium, heavy water (deuterium oxide) and other compounds of deuterium, and mixtures and
         solutions containing deuterium, in which the isotopic ratio of deuterium to hydrogen exceeds 1:5 000.
0C004    Graphite having a purity level better than 5 parts per million 'boron equivalent' and with a density greater
         than 1,50 g/cm3 for use in a "nuclear reactor", in quantities exceeding 1 kg.
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 1C107.
         Note 1:       For the purpose of export control, the competent authorities of the EU Member State in
                       which the exporter is established will determine whether or not the exports of graphite
                       meeting the above specifications are for "nuclear reactor" use. 0C004 does not control
                       graphite having a purity level better than 5 ppm (parts per million) boron equivalent and
                       with a density greater than 1,50 g/cm3 not for use in a "nuclear reactor".
         Note 2:       In 0C004, 'boron equivalent' (BE) is defined as the sum of BE z for impurities (excluding
                       BEcarbon since carbon is not considered an impurity) including boron, where:
                       BEZ (ppm) = CF x concentration of element Z in ppm;


                                                                                                        Z AB
                         where CF is the conversion factor                                 =            ---------


                                                                                                        B AZ
                       and B and Z are the thermal neutron capture cross sections (in barns) for naturally
                       occurring boron and element Z respectively; and AB and AZ are the atomic masses of
                       naturally occurring boron and element Z respectively.
0C005    Specially prepared compounds or powders for the manufacture of gaseous diffusion barriers, resistant
         to corrosion by UF6 (e.g. nickel or alloys containing 60% by weight or more nickel, aluminium oxide
         and fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers), having a purity of 99,9% by weight or more and a particle
         size less than 10 µm measured by ASTM B330 standard and a high degree of particle size uniformity.




                                                                                                                        33
        CATEGORY 0 NUCLEAR MATERIALS, FACILITIES, AND EQUIPMENT

0D       Software
0D001    "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of goods
         specified in this Category.

0E       Technology
0E001    "Technology" according to the Nuclear Technology Note for the "development", "production" or "use"
         of goods specified in this Category.




                                                                                                              34
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT
1A      Systems, Equipment and Components
1A001   Components made from fluorinated compounds, as follows:
        a.     Seals, gaskets, sealants or fuel bladders, specially designed for "aircraft" or aerospace use, made
               from more than 50% by weight of any of the materials specified in 1C009.b. or 1C009.c.;
        b.     Not used;
        c.     Not used.
1A002   "Composite" structures or laminates, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1A202, 9A010 and 9A110.
        a.     Made from any of the following:
               1.     An organic "matrix" and "fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010.c. or
                      1C010.d.: or
               2.     Prepregs or preforms specified in 1C010.e.;
        b.     Made from a metal or carbon "matrix", and any of the following:
               1.     Carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials" having all of the following:
                      a.     A "specific modulus" exceeding 10,15 x 106 m; and
                      b.     A "specific tensile strength" exceeding 17,7 x 104 m; or
               2.     Materials specified in 1C010.c.
        Note 1:       1A002 does not control "composite" structures or laminates made from epoxy resin
                      impregnated carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials" for the repair of "civil aircraft"
                      structures or laminates, having all of the following:
                      a.     An area not exceeding 1 m2;
                      b.     A length not exceeding 2,5 m; and
                      c.     A width exceeding 15 mm.
        Note 2:       1A002 does not control semi-finished items, specially designed for purely civilian
                      applications as follows:
                      a.     Sporting goods;
                      b.     Automotive industry;
                      c.     Machine tool industry;
                      d.     Medical applications.
        Note 3:       1A002.b.1. does not control semi-finished items containing a maximum of two dimensions
                      of interwoven filaments and specially designed for applications as follows:
                      a.      Metal heat-treatment furnaces for tempering metals;
                      b.      Silicon boule production equipment.
        Note 4:       1A002 does not control finished items specially designed for a specific application.
        Note 5:       1A002.b.1. does not control mechanically chopped, milled, or cut carbon "fibrous or
                      filamentary materials" 25,0 mm or less in length.
1A003   Manufactures of non-"fusible" aromatic polyimides in film, sheet, tape or ribbon form having any of
        the following :
        a.     A thickness exceeding 0,254 mm; or
        b.     Coated or laminated with carbon, graphite, metals or magnetic substances.
        Note: 1A003 does not control manufactures when coated or laminated with copper and designed for
              the production of electronic printed circuit boards.
        N.B.   For "fusible" aromatic polyimides in any form, see 1C008.a.3.



                                                                                                                     35
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1A004   Protective and detection equipment and components not specially designed for military use, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS, 2B351 AND 2B352.
        a.     Full face masks, filter canisters and decontamination equipment therefor, designed or modified
               for defence against any of the following, and specially designed components therefor:
               Note: 1A004.a. includes Powered Air Purifying Respirators (PAPR) that are designed or
                     modified for defence against agents or materials, listed in 1A004.a.
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 1A004.a.:
                                   1.     Full face masks are also known as gas masks.
                                   2.     Filter canisters include filter cartridges.
               1.     "Biological agents";
               2.     'Radioactive materials';
               3.     Chemical warfare (CW) agents; or
               4.     "Riot control agents", including:
                      a.     α-Bromobenzeneacetonitrile, (Bromobenzyl cyanide) (CA) (CAS 5798-79-8);
                      b.     [(2-Chlorophenyl) methylene] propanedinitrile,
                             (o-Chlorobenzylidenemalononitrile) (CS) (CAS 2698-41-1);
                      c.     2-Chloro-1-phenylethanone, Phenylacyl chloride (ω-chloroacetophenone) (CN)
                             (CAS 532-27-4);
                      d.     Dibenz-(b,f)-1,4-oxazephine (CR) (CAS 257-07-8);
                      e.     10-Chloro-5,10-dihydrophenarsazine, (Phenarsazine chloride), (Adamsite), (DM)
                             (CAS 578-94-9);
                      f.     N-Nonanoylmorpholine, (MPA) (CAS 5299-64-9);
        b.     Protective suits, gloves and shoes, specially designed or modified for defence against any of the
               following:
               1.     "Biological agents";
               2.     'Radioactive materials'; or
               3.     Chemical warfare (CW) agents;
        c.     Detection systems, specially designed or modified for detection or identification of any of the
               following, and specially designed components therefor:
               1.     "Biological agents";
               2.     'Radioactive materials'; or
               3.     Chemical warfare (CW) agents.
        d.     Electronic equipment designed for automatically detecting or identifying the presence of
               "explosives" residues and utilising 'trace detection' techniques (e.g., surface acoustic wave, ion
               mobility spectrometry, differential mobility spectrometry, mass spectrometry).
               Technical Note:
               'Trace detection' is defined as the capability to detect less than 1 ppm vapour, or 1 mg solid or
               liquid.
               Note 1:       1A004.d. does not control equipment specially designed for laboratory use.
               Note 2:       1A004.d. does not control non-contact walk-through security portals.




                                                                                                                    36
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1A004   continued
               Note: 1A004 does not control:
                                   a.    Personal radiation monitoring dosimeters;
                                   b.    Occupational health or safety equipment limited by design or function to protect
                                   against hazards specific to residential safety or civil industries, including:
                                          1.     mining;
                                          2.     quarrying;
                                          3.     agriculture;
                                          4.     pharmaceutical;
                                          5.     medical;
                                          6.     veterinary;
                                          7.     environmental;
                                          8.     waste management;
                                          9.     food industry.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    1A004 includes equipment and components that have been identified, successfully tested
                                          to national standards or otherwise proven effective, for the detection of or defence against
                                          'radioactive materials', "biological agents", chemical warfare agents, 'simulants' or "riot
                                          control agents", even if such equipment or components are used in civil industries such
                                          as mining, quarrying, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, medical, veterinary, environmental,
                                          waste management, or the food industry.
                                   2.    'Simulant' is a substance or material that is used in place of toxic agent (chemical or
                                          biological) in training, research, testing or evaluation.
                                   3.    For the purposes of 1A004, 'radioactive materials' are those selected or modified to
                                          increase their effectiveness in producing casualties in humans or animals, degrading
                                          equipment or damaging crops or the environment.

1A005   Body armour and components therefor, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        a.     Soft body armour not manufactured to military standards or specifications, or to their
               equivalents, and specially designed components therefor;
        b.     Hard body armour plates providing ballistic protection equal to or less than level IIIA (NIJ
               0101.06, July 2008), or "equivalent standards".
        N.B.   For "fibrous or filamentary materials" used in the manufacture of body armour, see 1C010.
        Note 1:       1A005 does not control body armour when accompanying its user for the user's own
                      personal protection.
        Note 2:       1A005 does not control body armour designed to provide frontal protection only from
                      both fragment and blast from non-military explosive devices.
        Note 3:       1A005 does not control body armour designed to provide protection only from knife,
                      spike, needle or blunt trauma.
1A006   Equipment, specially designed or modified for the disposal of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs),
        as follows, and specially designed components and accessories therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        a.     Remotely operated vehicles;
        b.     'Disruptors'.
        Technical Note:
        For the purposes of 1A006.b. 'disruptors' are devices specially designed for the purpose of preventing
        the operation of an explosive device by projecting a liquid, solid or frangible projectile.
        Note: 1A006 does not control equipment when accompanying its operator.




                                                                                                                    37
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1A007   Equipment and devices, specially designed to initiate charges and devices containing "energetic
        materials", by electrical means, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS, 3A229 AND 3A232.
        a.     Explosive detonator firing sets designed to drive explosive detonators specified in 1A007.b.;
        b.     Electrically driven explosive detonators as follows:
               1.     Exploding bridge (EB);
               2.     Exploding bridge wire (EBW);
               3.     Slapper;
               4.     Exploding foil initiators (EFI).
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    The word initiator or igniter is sometimes used in place of the word detonator.
                                   2.    For the purpose of 1A007.b. the detonators of concern all utilise a small electrical conductor
                                          (bridge, bridge wire, or foil) that explosively vaporises when a fast, high-current electrical pulse
                                          is passed through it. In non-slapper types, the exploding conductor starts a chemical detonation
                                          in a contacting high explosive material such as PETN (pentaerythritoltetranitrate). In slapper
                                          detonators, the explosive vaporization of the electrical conductor drives a flyer or slapper across
                                          a gap, and the impact of the slapper on an explosive starts a chemical detonation. The slapper
                                          in some designs is driven by magnetic force. The term exploding foil detonator may refer to
                                          either an EB or a slapper-type detonator.
1A008   Charges, devices and components, as follows:
        a.     'Shaped charges' having all of the following:
               1.     Net Explosive Quantity (NEQ) greater than 90 g; and
               2.     Outer casing diameter equal to or greater than 75 mm;
        b.     Linear shaped cutting charges having all of the following, and specially designed components
               therefor:
               1.     An explosive load greater than 40 g/m; and
               2.     A width of 10 mm or more;
        c.     Detonating cord with explosive core load greater than 64 g/m;
        d.     Cutters, other than those specified in 1A008.b., and severing tools, having a Net Explosive
               Quantity (NEQ) greater than 3,5 kg.
        Technical Note:
        'Shaped charges' are explosive charges shaped to focus the effects of the explosive blast.
1A102   Resaturated pyrolized carbon-carbon components designed for space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
1A202   Composite structures, other than those specified in 1A002, in the form of tubes and having both of the
        following characteristics:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A010 AND 9A110.
        a.     An inside diameter of between 75 mm and 400 mm; and
        b.     Made with any of the "fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010.a. or b. or 1C210.a.
               or with carbon prepreg materials specified in 1C210.c.
1A225   Platinized catalysts specially designed or prepared for promoting the hydrogen isotope exchange
        reaction between hydrogen and water for the recovery of tritium from heavy water or for the production
        of heavy water.




                                                                                                                     38
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1A226   Specialized packings which may be used in separating heavy water from ordinary water, having both of
        the following characteristics:
        a.    Made of phosphor bronze mesh chemically treated to improve wettability; and
        b.    Designed to be used in vacuum distillation towers.
1A227   High-density (lead glass or other) radiation shielding windows, having all of the following
        characteristics, and specially designed frames therefor:
        a.    A 'cold area' greater than 0,09 m2;
        b.    A density greater than 3 g/cm3; and
        c.    A thickness of 100 mm or greater.
        Technical Note:
        In 1A227 the term 'cold area' means the viewing area of the window exposed to the lowest level of
        radiation in the design application.




                                                                                                               39
         CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1B      Test, Inspection and Production Equipment

1B001    Equipment for the production or inspection of "composite" structures or laminates specified in 1A002
         or "fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010, as follows, and specially designed components
         and accessories therefor:
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 1B101 AND 1B201.
         a.     Filament winding machines, of which the motions for positioning, wrapping and winding fibres
                are coordinated and programmed in three or more 'primary servo positioning' axes, specially
                designed for the manufacture of "composite" structures or laminates, from "fibrous or
                filamentary materials";
         b.     'Tape-laying machines', of which the motions for positioning and laying tape are coordinated and
                programmed in five or more 'primary servo positioning' axes, specially designed for the
                manufacture of "composite" airframe or 'missile' structures;
                Note: In 1B001.b., 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle
                      systems.
                Technical Note:
                For the purposes of 1B001.b., 'tape-laying machines' have the ability to lay one or more 'filament
                bands' limited to widths greater than 25,4 mm and less than or equal to 304,8 mm, and to cut
                and restart individual 'filament band' courses during the laying process.
         c.     Multidirectional, multidimensional weaving machines or interlacing machines, including
                adapters and modification kits, specially designed or modified for weaving, interlacing or
                braiding fibres, for "composite" structures;
                Technical Note:
                For the purposes of 1B001.c., the technique of interlacing includes knitting.
         d.     Equipment specially designed or adapted for the production of reinforcement fibres, as follows:
                1.     Equipment for converting polymeric fibres (such as polyacrylonitrile, rayon, pitch or
                       polycarbosilane) into carbon fibres or silicon carbide fibres, including special equipment
                       to strain the fibre during heating;
                2.     Equipment for the chemical vapour deposition of elements or compounds, on heated
                       filamentary substrates, to manufacture silicon carbide fibres;
                3.     Equipment for the wet-spinning of refractory ceramics (such as aluminium oxide);
                4.     Equipment for converting aluminium containing precursor fibres into alumina fibres by
                       heat treatment;
         e.     Equipment for producing prepregs specified in 1C010.e. by the hot melt method;
         f.     Non-destructive inspection equipment specially designed for "composite" materials, as follows:
                1.     X-ray tomography systems for three dimensional defect inspection;
                2.     Numerically controlled ultrasonic testing machines of which the motions for positioning
                       transmitters or receivers are simultaneously coordinated and programmed in four or more
                       axes to follow the three dimensional contours of the component under inspection;
         g.     'Tow-placement machines', of which the motions for positioning and laying tows are coordinated
                and programmed in two or more 'primary servo positioning' axes, specially designed for the
                manufacture of "composite" airframe or 'missile' structures.
                Technical Note:
                For the purposes of 1B001.g., 'tow-placement machines' have the ability to place one or more
                'filament bands' having widths less than or equal to 25,4 mm, and to cut and restart individual
                'filament band' courses during the placement process.




                                                                                                                     40
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1B001   continued
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purpose of 1B001, 'primary servo positioning' axes control, under computer program
                                          direction, the position of the end effector (i.e., head) in space relative to the work piece at the
                                          correct orientation and direction to achieve the desired process.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 1B001, a 'filament band' is a single continuous width of fully or partially
                                          resin-impregnated tape, tow or fibre. Fully or partially resin-impregnated 'filament bands'
                                          include those coated with dry powder that tacks upon heating.
1B002   Equipment designed to produce metal alloy powder or particulate materials, and having all of the
        following:
        a.     Specially designed to avoid contamination; and
        b.     Specially designed for use in one of the processes specified in 1C002.c.2.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1B102.
1B003   Tools, dies, moulds or fixtures, for "superplastic forming" or "diffusion bonding" titanium, aluminium
        or their alloys, specially designed for the manufacture of any of the following:
        a.     Airframe or aerospace structures;
        b.     "Aircraft" or aerospace engines; or
        c.     Specially designed components for structures specified in 1B003.a. or for engines specified in
               1B003.b.
1B101   Equipment, other than that specified in 1B001, for the "production" of structural composites as follows;
        and specially designed components and accessories therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1B201.
        Note: Components and accessories specified in 1B101 include moulds, mandrels, dies, fixtures and
              tooling for the preform pressing, curing, casting, sintering or bonding of composite structures,
              laminates and manufactures thereof.
        a.     Filament winding machines or fibre placement machines, of which the motions for positioning,
               wrapping and winding fibres can be coordinated and programmed in three or more axes, designed
               to fabricate composite structures or laminates from "fibrous or filamentary materials", and
               coordinating and programming controls;
        b.     Tape-laying machines of which the motions for positioning and laying tape and sheets can be
               coordinated and programmed in two or more axes, designed for the manufacture of composite
               airframe and "missile" structures;
        c.     Equipment designed or modified for the "production" of "fibrous or filamentary materials" as
               follows:
               1.     Equipment for converting polymeric fibres (such as polyacrylonitrile, rayon or
                      polycarbosilane) including special provision to strain the fibre during heating;
               2.     Equipment for the vapour deposition of elements or compounds on heated filament
                      substrates;
               3.     Equipment for the wet-spinning of refractory ceramics (such as aluminium oxide);
        d.     Equipment designed or modified for special fibre surface treatment or for producing prepregs
               and preforms specified in entry 9C110.
               Note: 1B101.d. includes rollers, tension stretchers, coating equipment, cutting equipment and
                     clicker dies.




                                                                                                                    41
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1B102   Metal powder "production equipment", other than that specified in 1B002, and components as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1B115.b.
        a.     Metal powder "production equipment" usable for the "production", in a controlled environment,
               of spherical, spheroidal or atomised materials specified in 1C011.a., 1C011.b., 1C111.a.1.,
               1C111.a.2. or in the Military Goods Controls.
        b.     Specially designed components for "production equipment" specified in 1B002 or 1B102.a.
        Note: 1B102 includes:
                                   a.     Plasma generators (high frequency arc-jet) usable for obtaining sputtered or spherical
                                          metallic powders with organization of the process in an argon-water environment;
                                   b.     Electroburst equipment usable for obtaining sputtered or spherical metallic powders with
                                          organization of the process in an argon-water environment;
                                   c.     Equipment usable for the "production" of spherical aluminium powders by powdering a
                                          melt in an inert medium (e.g. nitrogen).
1B115   Equipment, other than that specified in 1B002 or 1B102, for the production of propellant and propellant
        constituents, as follows, and specially designed components therefor:
        a.     "Production equipment" for the "production", handling or acceptance testing of liquid propellants
               or propellant constituents specified in 1C011.a., 1C011.b., 1C111 or in the Military Goods
               Controls;
        b.     "Production equipment" for the "production", handling, mixing, curing, casting, pressing,
               machining, extruding or acceptance testing of solid propellants or propellant constituents
               specified in 1C011.a., 1C011.b., 1C111 or in the Military Goods Controls.
               Note: 1B115.b. does not control batch mixers, continuous mixers or fluid energy mills. For the
                     control of batch mixers, continuous mixers and fluid energy mills see 1B117, 1B118 and
                     1B119.
        Note 1:       For equipment specially designed for the production of military goods, see the Military
                      Goods Controls.
        Note 2:       1B115 does not control equipment for the "production", handling and acceptance testing
                      of boron carbide.
1B116   Specially designed nozzles for producing pyrolitically derived materials formed on a mould, mandrel
        or other substrate from precursor gases which decompose in the 1 573 K (1 300oC) to 3 173 K (2 900oC)
        temperature range at pressures of 130 Pa to 20 kPa.
1B117   Batch mixers having all of the following, and specially designed components therefor:
        a.     Designed or modified for mixing under vacuum in the range of zero to 13,326 kPa:
        b.     Capable of controlling the temperature of the mixing chamber;
        c.     A total volumetric capacity of 110 litres or more; and
        d.     At least one 'mixing/kneading shaft' mounted off centre.
        Note: In 1B117.d. the term 'mixing/kneading shaft' does not refer to deagglomerators or knife-spindles.
1B118   Continuous mixers having all of the following, and specially designed components therefor:
        a.     Designed or modified for mixing under vacuum in the range of zero to 13,326 kPa;
        b.     Capable of controlling the temperature of the mixing chamber;
        c.     any of the following,:
               1.     Two or more mixing/kneading shafts; or
               2.     All of the following:
                      a.     A single rotating and oscillating shaft with kneading teeth/pins ; and



                                                                                                                   42
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

                      b.      Kneading teeth/pins inside the casing of the mixing chamber.
1B119   Fluid energy mills usable for grinding or milling substances specified in 1C011.a., 1C011.b., 1C111 or
        in the Military Goods Controls, and specially designed components therefor.
1B201   Filament winding machines, other than those specified in 1B001 or 1B101, and related equipment, as
        follows:
        a.     Filament winding machines having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Having motions for positioning, wrapping, and winding fibres coordinated and
                      programmed in two or more axes;
               2.     Specially designed to fabricate composite structures or laminates from "fibrous or
                      filamentary materials"; and
               3.     Capable of winding cylindrical tubes with an internal diameter between 75 and 650 mm
                      and lengths of 300 mm or greater;
        b.     Coordinating and programming controls for the filament winding machines specified in
               1B201.a.;
        c.     Precision mandrels for the filament winding machines specified in 1B201.a.
1B225   Electrolytic cells for fluorine production with an output capacity greater than 250 g of fluorine per hour.
1B226   Electromagnetic isotope separators designed for, or equipped with, single or multiple ion sources
        capable of providing a total ion beam current of 50 mA or greater.
        Note: 1B226 includes separators:
                                   a.    Capable of enriching stable isotopes;
                                   b.    With the ion sources and collectors both in the magnetic field and those configurations
                                   in which they are external to the field.
1B228   Hydrogen-cryogenic distillation columns having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     Designed for operation with internal temperatures of 35 K (-238°C) or less;
        b.     Designed for operation at an internal pressure of 0,5 to 5 MPa;
        c.     Constructed of either:
               1.     Stainless steel of the Society of Automotive Engineers International (SAE) 300 series
                      with low sulphur content and with an austenitic ASTM (or equivalent standard) grain size
                      number of 5 or greater; or
               2.     Equivalent materials which are both cryogenic and hydrogen (H 2)-compatible; and
        d.     With internal diameters of 30 cm or greater and 'effective lengths' of 4 m or greater.
        Technical Note:
        In 1B228 'effective length' means the active height of packing material in a packed-type column, or the
        active height of internal contactor plates in a plate-type column.
1B230   Pumps capable of circulating solutions of concentrated or dilute potassium amide catalyst in liquid
        ammonia (KNH2/NH3), having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     Airtight (i.e., hermetically sealed);
        b.     A capacity greater than 8,5 m3/h; and
        c.     Either of the following characteristics:
               1.     For concentrated potassium amide solutions (1% or greater), an operating pressure of 1,5
                      to 60 MPa; or
               2.     For dilute potassium amide solutions (less than 1%), an operating pressure of 20 to
                      60 MPa.




                                                                                                                      43
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1B231   Tritium facilities or plants, and equipment therefor, as follows:
        a.     Facilities or plants for the production, recovery, extraction, concentration, or handling of tritium;
        b.     Equipment for tritium facilities or plants, as follows:
               1.     Hydrogen or helium refrigeration units capable of cooling to 23 K (-250°C) or less, with
                      heat removal capacity greater than 150 W;
               2.     Hydrogen isotope storage or hydrogen isotope purification systems using metal hydrides
                      as the storage or purification medium.
1B232   Turboexpanders or turboexpander-compressor sets having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     Designed for operation with an outlet temperature of 35 K (-238°C) or less; and
        b.     Designed for a throughput of hydrogen gas of 1 000 kg/h or greater.
1B233   Lithium isotope separation facilities or plants, and systems and equipment therefor, as follows:
        a.     Facilities or plants for the separation of lithium isotopes;
        b.     Equipment for the separation of lithium isotopes based on the lithium-mercury amalgam process,
               as follows:
               1.     Packed liquid-liquid exchange columns specially designed for lithium amalgams;
               2.     Mercury or lithium amalgam pumps;
               3.     Lithium amalgam electrolysis cells;
               4.     Evaporators for concentrated lithium hydroxide solution;
        c.     Ion exchange systems specially designed for lithium isotope separation, and specially designed
               components therefor;
        d.     Chemical exchange systems (employing crown ethers, cryptands, or lariat ethers), specially
               designed for lithium isotope separation, and specially designed components therefor.
1B234   High explosive containment vessels, chambers, containers and other similar containment devices
        designed for the testing of high explosives or explosive devices and having both of the following
        characteristics:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        a.     Designed to fully contain an explosion equivalent to 2 kg of trinitrotoluene (TNT) or greater;
               and
        b.     Having design elements or features enabling real time or delayed transfer of diagnostic or
               measurement information.

1B235   Target assemblies and components for the production of tritium as follows:
        a.     Target assemblies made of or containing lithium enriched in the lithium-6 isotope specially
               designed for the production of tritium through irradiation, including insertion in a nuclear
               reactor;
        b.     Components specially designed for the target assemblies specified in 1B235.a.
        Technical Note:
        Components specially designed for target assemblies for the production of tritium may include lithium
        pellets, tritium getters, and specially-coated cladding.



1C001   Materials specially designed for absorbing electromagnetic radiation, or intrinsically conductive
        polymers, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1C101.
                                                                         8                      12
        a.     Materials for absorbing frequencies exceeding 2 x 10 Hz but less than 3 x 10 Hz;
               Note 1: 1C001.a. does not control:
                                   a.     Hair type absorbers, constructed of natural or synthetic fibres, with non-magnetic
                                          loading to provide absorption;
                                   b.     Absorbers having no magnetic loss and whose incident surface is non-planar in shape,
                                          including pyramids, cones, wedges and convoluted surfaces;
                                   c.     Planar absorbers, having all of the following:
                                          1.     Made from any of the following:
                                                 a.     Plastic foam materials (flexible or non-flexible) with carbon-loading, or
                                                        organic materials, including binders, providing more than 5% echo
                                                        compared with metal over a bandwidth exceeding ±15% of the centre
                                                        frequency of the incident energy, and not capable of withstanding
                                                        temperatures exceeding 450 K (177°C); or
                                                 b.     Ceramic materials providing more than 20% echo compared with metal
                                                        over a bandwidth exceeding ±15% of the centre frequency of the incident
                                                        energy, and not capable of withstanding temperatures exceeding 800 K
                                                        (527°C);
                                                 Technical Note:
                                                 Absorption test samples for 1C001.a. Note: 1.c.1. should be a square at least
                                                 5 wavelengths of the centre frequency on a side and positioned in the far field of
                                                 the radiating element.
                                                                                    6    2
                                          2.    Tensile strength less than 7 x 10 N/m ; and
                                                                                    6   2
                                          3.    Compressive strength less than 14 x 10 N/m ;
                                   d.     Planar absorbers made of sintered ferrite, having all of the following:
                                          1.    A specific gravity exceeding 4,4; and
                                          2.    A maximum operating temperature of 548 K (275°C) or less;
                                   e.     Planar absorbers having no magnetic loss and fabricated from 'open-cell foam' plastic
                                          material with a density of 0,15 g/cm3 or less.
                                          Technical Note:
                                          'Open-cell foams' are flexible and porous materials, having an inner structure open to
                                          the atmosphere. 'Open-cell foams' are also known as reticulated foams.

               Note 2: Nothing in Note 1 to 1C001.a. releases magnetic materials to provide absorption when
                         contained in paint.
        b.     Materials not transparent to visible light and specially designed for absorbing near-infrared
               radiation having a wavelength exceeding 810 nm but less than 2 000 nm (frequencies exceeding
               150 THz but less than 370 THz);
               Note: 1C001.b. does not control materials, specially designed or formulated for any of the
                     following applications:
                                   a.     "Laser" marking of polymers; or
                                   b.     "Laser" welding of polymers.
        c.     Intrinsically conductive polymeric materials with a 'bulk electrical conductivity' exceeding
               10 000 S/m (Siemens per metre) or a 'sheet (surface) resistivity' of less than 100 ohms/square,
               based on any of the following polymers:
               1.     Polyaniline;
               2.     Polypyrrole;
               3.     Polythiophene;
               4.     Poly phenylene-vinylene; or
               5.     Poly thienylene-vinylene.
               Note: 1C001.c. does not control materials in a liquid form.
               Technical Note:
               'Bulk electrical conductivity' and 'sheet (surface) resistivity' should be determined using ASTM
               D-257 or national equivalents.
1C002   Metal alloys, metal alloy powder and alloyed materials, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1C202.
        Note: 1C002 does not control metal alloys, metal alloy powder and alloyed materials, specially
              formulated for coating purposes.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    The metal alloys in 1C002 are those containing a higher percentage by weight of the stated metal
                                          than of any other element.
                                   2.    'Stress-rupture life' should be measured in accordance with ASTM standard E-139 or national
                                          equivalents.
                                   3.    'Low cycle fatigue life' should be measured in accordance with ASTM standard E-606
                                          'Recommended Practice for Constant-Amplitude Low-Cycle Fatigue Testing' or national
                                          equivalents. Testing should be axial with an average stress ratio equal to 1 and a stress-
                                          concentration factor (Kt) equal to 1. The average stress ratio is defined as maximum stress minus
                                          minimum stress divided by maximum stress.
        a.     Aluminides, as follows:
               1.     Nickel aluminides containing a minimum of 15% by weight aluminium, a maximum of
                      38% by weight aluminium and at least one additional alloying element;
               2.     Titanium aluminides containing 10% by weight or more aluminium and at least one
                      additional alloying element;
        b.     Metal alloys, as follows, made from the powder or particulate material specified in 1C002.c.:
               1.     Nickel alloys having any of the following:




                                                                                                                  46
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

                     a.     A 'stress-rupture life' of 10 000 hours or longer at 923 K (650°C) at a stress of 676
                            MPa; or
                     b.     A 'low cycle fatigue life' of 10 000 cycles or more at 823 K (550°C) at a maximum
                            stress of 1 095 MPa;
1C002   continued
              2.     Niobium alloys having any of the following:
                     a.     A 'stress-rupture life' of 10 000 hours or longer at 1 073 K (800°C) at a stress of
                            400 MPa; or
                     b.     A 'low cycle fatigue life' of 10 000 cycles or more at 973 K (700°C) at a maximum
                            stress of 700 MPa;
              3.     Titanium alloys having any of the following:
                     a.     A 'stress-rupture life' of 10 000 hours or longer at 723 K (450°C) at a stress of
                            200 MPa; or
                     b.     A 'low cycle fatigue life' of 10 000 cycles or more at 723 K (450°C) at a maximum
                            stress of 400 MPa;
              4.     Aluminium alloys having any of the following:
                     a.     A tensile strength of 240 MPa or more at 473 K (200°C); or
                     b.     A tensile strength of 415 MPa or more at 298 K (25°C);
              5.     Magnesium alloys having all of the following:
                     a.     A tensile strength of 345 MPa or more; and
                     b.     A corrosion rate of less than 1 mm/year in 3% sodium chloride aqueous solution
                            measured in accordance with ASTM standard G-31 or national equivalents;
        c.    Metal alloy powder or particulate material, having all of the following:
              1.     Made from any of the following composition systems:
                     Technical Note:
                     X in the following equals one or more alloying elements.
                     a.     Nickel alloys (Ni-Al-X, Ni-X-Al) qualified for turbine engine parts or
                            components, i.e. with less than 3 non-metallic particles (introduced during the
                            manufacturing process) larger than 100 µm in 109 alloy particles;
                     b.     Niobium alloys (Nb-Al-X or Nb-X-Al, Nb-Si-X or Nb-X-Si, Nb-Ti-X or
                            Nb-X-Ti);
                     c.     Titanium alloys (Ti-Al-X or Ti-X-Al);
                     d.     Aluminium alloys (Al-Mg-X or Al-X-Mg, Al-Zn-X or Al-X-Zn, Al-Fe-X or Al-
                            X-Fe); or
                     e.     Magnesium alloys (Mg-Al-X or Mg-X-Al);
              2.     Made in a controlled environment by any of the following processes:
                     a.     'Vacuum atomisation';
                     b.     'Gas atomisation';
                     c.     'Rotary atomisation';
                     d.     'Splat quenching';
                     e.     'Melt spinning' and 'comminution';
                     f.     'Melt extraction' and 'comminution';



                                                                                                                    47
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

                      g.     'Mechanical alloying'; or
                      h.     'Plasma atomisation';and
               3.     Capable of forming materials specified in 1C002.a. or 1C002.b.;
        d.     Alloyed materials having all of the following:
               1.     Made from any of the composition systems specified in 1C002.c.1.;
1C002   continued
               2.     In the form of uncomminuted flakes, ribbons or thin rods; and
               3.     Produced in a controlled environment by any of the following:
                      a.     'Splat quenching';
                      b.     'Melt spinning'; or
                      c.     'Melt extraction'.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Vacuum atomisation' is a process to reduce a molten stream of metal to droplets of a
                                          diameter of 500 μm or less by the rapid evolution of a dissolved gas upon exposure to a
                                          vacuum.
                                   2.     'Gas atomisation' is a process to reduce a molten stream of metal alloy to droplets of 500
                                          μm diameter or less by a high pressure gas stream.
                                   3.     'Rotary atomisation' is a process to reduce a stream or pool of molten metal to droplets
                                          to a diameter of 500 μm or less by centrifugal force.
                                   4.     'Splat quenching' is a process to 'solidify rapidly' a molten metal stream impinging upon
                                          a chilled block, forming a flake-like product.
                                   5.     'Melt spinning' is a process to 'solidify rapidly' a molten metal stream impinging upon a
                                          rotating chilled block, forming a flake, ribbon or rod-like product.
                                   6.     'Comminution' is a process to reduce a material to particles by crushing or grinding.
                                   7.     'Melt extraction' is a process to 'solidify rapidly' and extract a ribbon-like alloy product
                                          by the insertion of a short segment of a rotating chilled block into a bath of a molten metal
                                          alloy.
                                   8.     'Mechanical alloying' is an alloying process resulting from the bonding, fracturing and
                                          rebonding of elemental and master alloy powders by mechanical impact. Non-metallic
                                          particles may be incorporated in the alloy by addition of the appropriate powders.
                                   9.     'Plasma atomisation' is a process to reduce a molten stream or solid metal to droplets of
                                          500 μm diameter or less, using plasma torches in an inert gas environment.
                                   10.    'Solidify rapidly' is a process involving the solidification of molten material at cooling
                                          rates exceeding 1 000 K/sec.
1C003   Magnetic metals, of all types and of whatever form, having any of the following:
        a.     Initial relative permeability of 120 000 or more and a thickness of 0,05 mm or less;
               Technical Note:
               Measurement of initial relative permeability must be performed on fully annealed materials.
        b.     Magnetostrictive alloys having any of the following:
                                                                          -4
               1.     A saturation magnetostriction of more than 5 x 10 ; or
               2.     A magnetomechanical coupling factor (k) of more than 0,8; or
        c.     Amorphous or 'nanocrystalline' alloy strips, having all of the following:
               1.     A composition having a minimum of 75% by weight of iron, cobalt or nickel;


                                                                                                                      48
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1C003   continued
               2.     A saturation magnetic induction (Bs) of 1,6 T or more; and
               3.     Any of the following:
                      a.     A strip thickness of 0,02 mm or less; or
                      b.     An electrical resistivity of 2 x 10-4 ohm cm or more.



               Technical Note:
               'Nanocrystalline' materials in 1C003.c. are those materials having a crystal grain size of 50 nm
               or less, as determined by X-ray diffraction.
1C004   Uranium titanium alloys or tungsten alloys with a "matrix" based on iron, nickel or copper, having all
        of the following:
                                               3
        a.     A density exceeding 17,5 g/cm ;
        b.     An elastic limit exceeding 880 MPa;
        c.     An ultimate tensile strength exceeding 1 270 MPa; and
        d.     An elongation exceeding 8%.
1C005   "Superconductive" "composite" conductors in lengths exceeding 100 m or with a mass exceeding 100 g,
        as follows:
        a.     "Superconductive" "composite" conductors containing one or more niobium-titanium 'filaments',
               having all of the following:
               1.     Embedded in a "matrix" other than a copper or copper-based mixed "matrix"; and
               2.     Having a cross-section area less than 0,28 x 10-4 mm2 (6 µm in diameter for circular
                      'filaments');
        b.     "Superconductive" "composite" conductors consisting of one or more "superconductive"
               'filaments' other than niobium-titanium, having all of the following:
               1.     A "critical temperature" at zero magnetic induction exceeding 9,85 K (-263,31°C); and
               2.     Remaining in the "superconductive" state at a temperature of 4,2 K (-268,96°C) when
                      exposed to a magnetic field oriented in any direction perpendicular to the longitudinal
                      axis of conductor and corresponding to a magnetic induction of 12 T with critical current
                      density exceeding 1 750 A/mm2 on overall cross-section of the conductor;
        c.     "Superconductive" "composite" conductors consisting of one or more "superconductive"
               'filaments' which remain "superconductive" above 115 K (-158,16°C).
        Technical Note:
        For the purpose of 1C005 'filaments' may be in wire, cylinder, film, tape or ribbon form.
1C006   Fluids and lubricating materials, as follows:
        a.     Not used;
        b.     Lubricating materials containing, as their principal ingredients, any of the following:
               1.     Phenylene or alkylphenylene ethers or thio-ethers, or their mixtures, containing more than
                      two ether or thio-ether functions or mixtures thereof; or
               2.     Fluorinated silicone fluids with a kinematic viscosity of less than 5 000 mm2/s (5 000
                      centistokes) measured at 298 K (25°C);
        c.     Damping or flotation fluids having all of the following:
               1.     Purity exceeding 99,8%;



                                                                                                                   49
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

              2.     Containing less than 25 particles of 200 µm or larger in size per 100 ml; and
              3.     Made from at least 85% of any of the following:
                     a.     Dibromotetrafluoroethane (CAS 25497-30-7, 124-73-2, 27336-23-8);
                     b.     Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (oily and waxy modifications only); or
                     c.     Polybromotrifluoroethylene;
        d.    Fluorocarbon fluids designed for electronic cooling and having all of the following:
              1.     Containing 85% by weight or more of any of the following, or mixtures thereof:
                     a.     Monomeric forms of perfluoropolyalkylether-triazines or perfluoroaliphatic-
                            ethers;
1C006   continued
                     b.     Perfluoroalkylamines;
                     c.     Perfluorocycloalkanes; or
                     d.     Perfluoroalkanes;
              2.     Density at 298 K (25°C) of 1,5 g/ml or more;
              3.     In a liquid state at 273 K (0°C); and
              4.     Containing 60% or more by weight of fluorine.
              Note: 1C006.d. does not control materials specified and packaged as medical products.
1C007   Ceramic powders, ceramic-"matrix" "composite" materials and 'precursor materials', as follows:
        N.B.: SEE ALSO 1C107.
        a.    Ceramic powders of titanium diboride (TiB2) (CAS 12045-63-5) having total metallic impurities,
              excluding intentional additions, of less than 5 000 ppm, an average particle size equal to or less
              than 5 µm and no more than 10% of the particles larger than 10 µm;
        b.    Not used;
        c.    Ceramic-"matrix" "composite" materials as follows:
              1.     Ceramic-ceramic "composite" materials with a glass or oxide-"matrix" and reinforced
                     with any of the following:
                     a.     Continuous fibres made from any of the following materials:
                            1. Al2O3 (CAS 1344-28-1); or
                            2. Si-C-N; or
                     Note: 1C007.c.1.a. does not control "composites" containing fibres with a tensile
                           strength of less than 700 MPa at 1 273 K (1 000°C) or tensile creep resistance of
                           more than 1% creep strain at 100 MPa load and 1 273 K (1 000°C) for 100 hours.
                     b.     Fibres being all of the following:
                            1.     Made from any of the following materials:
                                   a.    Si-N;
                                   b.    Si-C;
                                   c.    Si-Al-O-N; or
                                   d.    Si-O-N; and
                                                                                             3
                            2.     Having a "specific tensile strength" exceeding 12,7 x 10 m;




                                                                                                                   50
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

               2.     Ceramic “matrix” "composite" materials, with a "matrix" formed of carbides or nitrides
                      of silicon, zirconium or boron;
        d.     Not used;
        e.     'Precursor materials' specially designed for the "production" of materials specified in 1C007.c.,
               as follows:
               1.     Polydiorganosilanes;
               2.     Polysilazanes;
               3.     Polycarbosilazanes;
        Note:
        For the purposes of 1C007, 'precursor materials' are special purpose polymeric or metallo-organic
        materials used for the "production" of silicon carbide, silicon nitride, or ceramics with silicon, carbon
        and nitrogen.
        f.     Not used.
1C008   Non-fluorinated polymeric substances as follows:
        a.     Imides, as follows:
               1.     Bismaleimides;
               2.     Aromatic polyamide-imides (PAI) having a 'glass transition temperature (T g)' exceeding
                      563 K (290°C);
               3.     Aromatic polyimides having a 'glass transition temperature (T g)' exceeding 505 K
                      (232°C);
               4.     Aromatic polyetherimides having a 'glass transition temperature (T g)' exceeding 563 K
                      (290°C);
               Note: 1C008.a. controls substances in liquid or solid "fusible" form, including resin, powder,
                     pellet, film, sheet, tape or ribbon.
               N.B.   For non-"fusible" aromatic polyimides in film, sheet, tape or ribbon form, see 1A003.
        b.     Not used;
        c.     Not used;
        d.     Polyarylene ketones;
        e.     Polyarylene sulphides, where the arylene group is biphenylene, triphenylene or combinations
               thereof;
        f.     Polybiphenylenethersulphone having a 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' exceeding 563 K
               (290°C).
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    The 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' for 1C008.a.2. thermoplastic materials, 1C008.a.4.
                                          materials and 1C008.f. materials is determined using the method described in ISO 11357-2:1999
                                          or national equivalents
                                   2.    The 'glass transition temperature (Tg)' for 1C008.a.2. thermosetting materials and 1C008.a.3.
                                          materials is determined using the 3-point bend method described in ASTM D 7028-07 or
                                          equivalent national standard. The test is to be performed using a dry test specimen which has
                                          attained a minimum of 90% degree of cure as specified by ASTM E 2160-04 or equivalent
                                          national standard, and was cured using the combination of standard- and post-cure processes
                                          that yield the highest Tg.
1C009   Unprocessed fluorinated compounds as follows:
        a.     Not used;
        b.     Fluorinated polyimides containing 10% by weight or more of combined fluorine;



                                                                                                                    51
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

        c.     Fluorinated phosphazene elastomers containing 30% by weight or more of combined fluorine.
1C010   "Fibrous or filamentary materials", as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1C210 AND 9C110.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.     For the purpose of calculating "specific tensile strength", "specific modulus" or specific weight
                                          of "fibrous or filamentary materials" in 1C010.a., 1C010.b., 1C010.c. or 1C010.e.1.b., the
                                          tensile strength and modulus should be determined by using Method A described in
                                          ISO 10618:2004 or national equivalents.
                                   2.     Assessing the "specific tensile strength", "specific modulus" or specific weight of non-
                                          unidirectional "fibrous or filamentary materials" (e.g., fabrics, random mats or braids) in 1C010
                                          is to be based on the mechanical properties of the constituent unidirectional monofilaments (e.g.,
                                          monofilaments, yarns, rovings or tows) prior to processing into the non-unidirectional "fibrous
                                          or filamentary materials".
        a.     Organic "fibrous or filamentary materials", having all of the following:

              1.     "Specific modulus" exceeding 12,7 x 106 m; and
              2.     "Specific tensile strength" exceeding 23,5 x 104 m;
              Note: 1C010.a. does not control polyethylene.
        b.    Carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials", having all of the following:
              1.     "Specific modulus" exceeding 14,65 x 106 m; and
              2.     "Specific tensile strength" exceeding 26,82 x 104 m;
              Note: 1C010.b. does not control:
                    a.    "Fibrous or filamentary materials", for the repair of "civil aircraft" structures or
                          laminates, having all of the following:
                          1.     An area not exceeding 1 m2;
                          2.     A length not exceeding 2,5 m; and
                          3.     A width exceeding 15 mm.
                    b.    Mechanically chopped, milled or cut carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials"
                          25,0 mm or less in length.
        c.    Inorganic "fibrous or filamentary materials", having all of the following:
              1.     Having any of the following:
                     a.     Composed of 50% or more by weight silicon dioxide and having a "specific
                            modulus" exceeding 2,54 x 106 m; or
                     b.     Not specified in 1C010.c.1.a. and having a "specific modulus" exceeding 5,6 x 10 6
                            m; and
              2.     Melting, softening, decomposition or sublimation point exceeding 1 922 K (1 649°C) in
                     an inert environment;
              Note: 1C010.c. does not control:
                                   a.      Discontinuous, multiphase, polycrystalline alumina fibres in chopped fibre or
                                          random mat form, containing 3% by weight or more silica, with a "specific
                                          modulus" of less than 10 x 106 m;
                                   b.      Molybdenum and molybdenum alloy fibres;
                                   c.      Boron fibres;
                                   d.      Discontinuous ceramic fibres with a melting, softening, decomposition or
                                          sublimation point lower than 2 043 K (1 770°C) in an inert environment.
        d.    "Fibrous or filamentary materials", having any of the following:
              1.     Composed of any of the following:
                     a.     Polyetherimides specified in 1C008.a.; or
                     b.     Materials specified in 1C008.d. to 1C008.f.; or
              2.     Composed of materials specified in 1C010.d.1.a. or 1C010.d.1.b. and 'commingled' with
                     other fibres specified in 1C010.a., 1C010.b. or 1C010.c.;
              Technical Note:
              'Commingled' is filament to filament blending of thermoplastic fibres and reinforcement fibres
              in order to produce a fibre reinforcement "matrix" mix in total fibre form.
        e.    Fully or partially resin-impregnated or pitch-impregnated "fibrous or filamentary materials"
              (prepregs), metal or carbon-coated "fibrous or filamentary materials" (preforms) or 'carbon fibre
              preforms', having all of the following:
              1.     Having any of the following:
                     a.     Inorganic "fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010.c.; or
                     b.     Organic or carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials", having all of the following:

                             1.     "Specific modulus" exceeding 10,15 x 10 m; and
                             2.     "Specific tensile strength" exceeding 17,7 x 10 m; and
               2.     Having any of the following:
                      a.     Resin or pitch, specified in 1C008 or 1C009.b.;
                      b.     'Dynamic Mechanical Analysis glass transition temperature (DMA Tg)' equal to or
                             exceeding 453 K (180ºC) and having a phenolic resin; or
                      c.     'Dynamic Mechanical Analysis glass transition temperature (DMA Tg)' equal to or
                             exceeding 505 K (232ºC) and having a resin or pitch, not specified in 1C008 or
                             1C009.b., and not being a phenolic resin;
               Note 1:       Metal or carbon-coated "fibrous or filamentary materials" (preforms) or 'carbon
                             fibre preforms', not impregnated with resin or pitch, are specified by "fibrous or
                             filamentary materials" in 1C010.a., 1C010.b. or 1C010.c.
               Note 2:       1C010.e. does not control:
                             a.     Epoxy resin "matrix" impregnated carbon "fibrous or filamentary
                                    materials" (prepregs) for the repair of "civil aircraft" structures or
                                    laminates, having all the following;
                                    1.      An area not exceeding 1 m2;
                                    2.      A length not exceeding 2,5 m; and
                                    3.      A width exceeding 15 mm.
                             b.     Fully or partially resin-impregnated or pitch-impregnated mechanically
                                    chopped, milled or cut carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials" 25,0 mm
                                    or less in length when using a resin or pitch other than those specified in 1C008 or 1C009.b.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.      'Carbon fibre preforms' are an ordered arrangement of uncoated or coated fibres
                                          intended to constitute a framework of a part before the "matrix" is introduced to form
                                          a "composite".
                                   2.      The 'Dynamic Mechanical Analysis glass transition temperature (DMA T g)' for
                                          materials specified in 1C010.e. is determined using the method described in
                                          ASTM D 7028-07, or equivalent national standard, on a dry test specimen. In the case
                                          of thermoset materials, degree of cure of a dry test specimen shall be a minimum of
                                          90% as defined by ASTM E 2160-04 or equivalent national standard.
1C011   Metals and compounds, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS and 1C111.
        a.     Metals in particle sizes of less than 60 µm whether spherical, atomised, spheroidal, flaked or
               ground, manufactured from material consisting of 99% or more of zirconium, magnesium and
               alloys thereof;
               Technical Note:
               The natural content of hafnium in the zirconium (typically 2% to 7%) is counted with the
               zirconium.
               Note: The metals or alloys specified in 1C011.a. are controlled whether or not the metals or
                     alloys are encapsulated in aluminium, magnesium, zirconium or beryllium.
        b.     Boron or boron alloys, with a particle size of 60 µm or less, as follows:
               1.     Boron with a purity of 85% by weight or more;
               2.     Boron alloys with a boron content of 85% by weight or more;



                                                                                                                  54
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

               Note: The metals or alloys specified in 1C011.b. are controlled whether or not the metals or
                     alloys are encapsulated in aluminium, magnesium, zirconium or beryllium.
        c.     Guanidine nitrate (CAS 506-93-4);
1C011   continued
        d.     Nitroguanidine (NQ) (CAS 556-88-7).
        N.B.   See also Military Goods Controls for metal powders mixed with other substances to form a
               mixture formulated for military purposes.
1C012   Materials as follows:
        Technical Note:
        These materials are typically used for nuclear heat sources.
        a.     Plutonium in any form with a plutonium isotopic assay of plutonium-238 of more than 50% by
               weight;
               Note: 1C012.a. does not control:
                                   a.    Shipments with a plutonium content of 1 g or less;
                                   b.    Shipments of 3 "effective grammes" or less when contained in a sensing component
                                   in instruments.
        b.     "Previously separated" neptunium-237 in any form.
               Note: 1C012.b. does not control shipments with a neptunium-237 content of 1 g or less.
1C101   Materials and devices for reduced observables such as radar reflectivity, ultraviolet/infrared signatures
        and acoustic signatures, other than those specified in 1C001, usable in 'missiles', "missile" subsystems
        or unmanned aerial vehicles specified in 9A012 or 9A112.a.
        Note 1:       1C101 includes:
                      a.    Structural materials and coatings specially designed for reduced radar
                            reflectivity;
                      b.    Coatings, including paints, specially designed for reduced or tailored reflectivity
                            or emissivity in the microwave, infrared or ultraviolet regions of the
                            electromagnetic spectrum.
        Note 2:       1C101 does not include coatings when specially used for the thermal control of satellites.
        Technical Note:
        In 1C101 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
1C102   Resaturated pyrolized carbon-carbon materials designed for space launch vehicles specified in 9A004
        or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
1C107   Graphite and ceramic materials, other than those specified in 1C007, as follows:
        a.     Fine grain graphites with a bulk density of 1,72 g/cm3 or greater, measured at 288 K (15°C), and
               having a grain size of 100 µm or less, usable for rocket nozzles and re-entry vehicle nose tips,
               which can be machined to any of the following products:
               1.     Cylinders having a diameter of 120 mm or greater and a length of 50 mm or greater;
               2.     Tubes having an inner diameter of 65 mm or greater and a wall thickness of 25 mm or
                      greater and a length of 50 mm or greater; or
               3.     Blocks having a size of 120 mm x 120 mm x 50 mm or greater;
               N.B.   See also 0C004.
        b.     Pyrolytic or fibrous reinforced graphites, usable for rocket nozzles and reentry vehicle nose tips
               usable in "missiles", space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in
               9A104;
               N.B.   See also 0C004.


                                                                                                                    55
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

        c.     Ceramic composite materials (dielectric constant less than 6 at any frequency from 100 MHz to
               100 GHz) for use in radomes usable in "missiles", space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or
               sounding rockets specified in 9A104;
        d.     Bulk machinable silicon-carbide reinforced unfired ceramic, usable for nose tips usable in
               "missiles", space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104;
1C107   continued
        e.     Reinforced silicon-carbide ceramic composites, usable for nose tips, reentry vehicles and nozzle
               flaps usable in "missiles", space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified
               in 9A104;
        f.     Bulk machinable ceramic composite materials consisting of an 'Ultra High Temperature Ceramic
               (UHTC)' matrix with a melting point equal to or greater than 3 000°C and reinforced with fibres
               or filaments, usable for missile components (such as nose-tips, re-entry vehicles, leading edges,
               jet vanes, control surfaces or rocket motor throat inserts) in "missiles", space launch vehicles
               specified in 9A004, sounding rockets specified in 9A104 or 'missiles'.
               Note: 1C107.f. does not control 'Ultra High Temperature Ceramic (UHTC) ' materials in non-
                     composite form.
               Technical Note 1:
                                   In 1C107.f. 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems
                                   capable of a range exceeding 300 km.
               Technical Note 2:
                                   'Ultra High Temperature Ceramics (UHTC)' includes:
                                   1.     Titanium diboride (TiB2);
                                   2.     Zirconium diboride (ZrB2);
                                   3.     Niobium diboride (NbB2);
                                   4.     Hafnium diboride (HfB2);
                                   5.     Tantalum diboride (TaB2);
                                   6.     Titanium carbide (TiC);
                                   7.     Zirconium carbide (ZrC);
                                   8.     Niobium carbide (NbC);
                                   9.     Hafnium carbide (HfC);
                                   10.    Tantalum carbide (TaC).
1C111   Propellants and constituent chemicals for propellants, other than those specified in 1C011, as follows:
        a.     Propulsive substances:
               1.     Spherical or spheroidal aluminium powder other than that specified in the Military Goods
                      Controls, in particle size of less than 200 µm and an aluminium content of 97% by weight
                      or more, if at least 10% of the total weight is made up of particles of less than 63 µm,
                      according to ISO 2591-1:1988 or national equivalents;
               Technical Note:
               A particle size of 63 µm (ISO R-565) corresponds to 250 mesh (Tyler) or 230 mesh (ASTM
               standard E-11).
               2.     Metal powders, other than that specified in the Military Goods Controls, as follows:
                      a.     Metal powders of zirconium, beryllium or magnesium, or alloys of these metals,
                             if at least 90% of the total particles by particle volume or weight are made up of
                             particles of less than 60 µm (determined by measurement techniques such as using
                             a sieve, laser diffraction or optical scanning), whether spherical, atomized,
                             spheroidal, flaked or ground, consisting 97% by weight or more of any of the
                             following:
                             1.     Zirconium;
                             2.     Beryllium; or
                             3.     Magnesium;


                                                                                                                    56
CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

           Technical Note:
           The natural content of hafnium in the zirconium (typically 2% to 7%) is counted
           with the zirconium.




                                                                                             57
         CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1C111.a. continued
                     b.     Metal powders of either boron or boron alloys with a boron content of 85% or
                            more by weight, if at least 90% of the total particles by particle volume or weight
                            are made up of particles of less than 60 µm (determined by measurement
                            techniques such as using a sieve, laser diffraction or optical scanning), whether
                            spherical, atomised, spheroidal, flaked or ground;
                     Note: 1C111a.2.a. and 1C111a.2.b. controls powder mixtures with a multimodal
                           particle distribution (e.g. mixtures of different grain sizes) if one or more modes
                           are controlled.
               3.    Oxidiser substances usable in liquid propellant rocket engines as follows:
                     a.     Dinitrogen trioxide (CAS 10544-73-7);
                     b.     Nitrogen dioxide (CAS 10102-44-0)/dinitrogen tetroxide (CAS 10544-72-6);
                     c.     Dinitrogen pentoxide (CAS 10102-03-1);
                     d.     Mixed Oxides of Nitrogen (MON);
                     Technical Note:
                     Mixed Oxides of Nitrogen (MON) are solutions of Nitric Oxide (NO) in Dinitrogen
                     Tetroxide/Nitrogen Dioxide (N2O4/NO2 ) that can be used in missile systems. There are a
                     range of compositions that can be denoted as MONi or MONij, where i and j are integers
                     representing the percentage of Nitric Oxide in the mixture (e.g., MON3 contains 3%
                     Nitric Oxide, MON25 25% Nitric Oxide. An upper limit is MON40, 40% by weight).
                     e.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Inhibited Red Fuming Nitric Acid
                            (IRFNA);
                     f.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS AND 1C238 FOR compounds composed
                            of fluorine and one or more of other halogens, oxygen or nitrogen.
               4.    Hydrazine derivatives as follows:
               N.B.: SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
                     a.     Trimethylhydrazine (CAS 1741-01-1);
                     b.     Tetramethylhydrazine (CAS 6415-12-9);
                     c.     N,N-Diallylhydrazine (CAS 5164-11-4);
                     d.     Allylhydrazine (CAS 7422-78-8);
                     e.     Ethylene dihydrazine (CAS 6068-98-0);
                     f.     Monomethylhydrazine dinitrate;
                     g.     Unsymmetrical dimethylhydrazine nitrate;
                     h.     Hydrazinium azide (CAS 14546-44-2);
                     i.     1,1-Dimethylhydrazinium azide (CAS 227955-52-4) / 1,2-Dimethylhydrazinium
                            azide (CAS 299177-50-7);
                     j.     Hydrazinium dinitrate (CAS 13464-98-7);
                     k.     Diimido oxalic acid dihydrazine (CAS 3457-37-2);
                     l.     2-hydroxyethylhydrazine nitrate (HEHN);
                     m.     See Military Goods Controls for Hydrazinium perchlorate;
                     n.     Hydrazinium diperchlorate (CAS 13812-39-0);
                     o.     Methylhydrazine nitrate (MHN) (CAS 29674-96-2);




                                                                                                                  58
         CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

                      p.     1,1-Diethylhydrazine nitrate (DEHN) / 1,2-Diethylhydrazine nitrate (DEHN)
                             (CAS 363453-17-2);
                      q.     3,6-Dihydrazino tetrazine nitrate (1,4-dihydrazine nitrate) (DHTN);
1C111.a. continued
               5.     High energy density materials, other than that specified in the Military Goods Controls,
                      usable in 'missiles' or unmanned aerial vehicles specified in 9A012 or 9A112.a.;
                      a.     Mixed fuel that incorporate both solid and liquid fuels, such as boron slurry,
                             having a mass-based energy density of 40 x 106 J/kg or greater;
                      b.     Other high energy density fuels and fuel additives (e.g., cubane, ionic solutions,
                             JP-10) having a volume-based energy density of 37,5 x 109 J/m3 or greater,
                             measured at 20°C and one atmosphere (101,325 kPa) pressure;
                             Note: 1C111.a.5.b. does not control fossil refined fuels and biofuels produced
                                   from vegetables, including fuels for engines certified for use in civil
                                   aviation, unless specially formulated for 'missiles' or unmanned aerial
                                   vehicles specified in 9A012 or 9A112.a..
                      Technical Note:
                      In 1C111.a.5. 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle
                      systems capable of a range exceeding 300 km.
               6.     Hydrazine replacement fuels as follows:
                      a.     2-Dimethylaminoethylazide (DMAZ) (CAS 86147-04-8);
         b.    Polymeric substances:
               1.     Carboxy-terminated polybutadiene (including carboxyl-terminated polybutadiene)
                      (CTPB);
               2.     Hydroxy-terminated polybutadiene (including hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene)
                      (HTPB) (CAS 69102-90-5), other than that specified in the Military Goods Controls;
               3.     Polybutadiene-acrylic acid (PBAA);
               4.     Polybutadiene-acrylic acid-acrylonitrile (PBAN) (CAS 25265-19-4 / CAS 68891-50-9);
               5.     Polytetrahydrofuran polyethylene glycol (TPEG);
                      Technical Note:
                      Polytetrahydrofuran polyethylene glycol (TPEG) is a block co-polymer of poly 1,4-
                      Butanediol (CAS 110-63-4) and polyethylene glycol (PEG) (CAS 25322-68-3).
               6.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR polyglycidyl nitrate (PGN or poly-GLYN)
                      (CAS 27814-48- 8).
         c.    Other propellant additives and agents:
               1.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Carboranes, decaboranes, pentaboranes
                      and derivatives thereof;
               2.     Triethylene glycol dinitrate (TEGDN) (CAS 111-22-8);
               3.     2-Nitrodiphenylamine (CAS 119-75-5);
               4.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR trimethylolethane trinitrate (TMETN)
                      (CAS 3032-55-1);
               5.     Diethylene glycol dinitrate (DEGDN) (CAS 693-21-0);
               6.     Ferrocene derivatives as follows:
                      a.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR catocene (CAS 37206-42-1);
                      b.     SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Ethyl ferrocene (CAS 1273-89-8);



                                                                                                                  59
         CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

                      c.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR n-Propyl ferrocene (CAS 1273-92-
                              3)/iso-propyl ferrocene (CAS 12126-81-7);
                      d.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR n-butyl ferrocene (CAS 31904-29-
                              7);
                      e.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Pentyl ferrocene (CAS 1274-00-6);
1C111.c continued
                      f.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Dicyclopentyl ferrocene (CAS
                              125861-17-8);
                      g.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Dicyclohexyl ferrocene;
                      h.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Diethyl ferrocene (CAS 1273-97-
                              8);
                      i.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Dipropyl ferrocene;
                      j.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Dibutyl ferrocene (CAS 1274-08-
                              4);
                      k.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Dihexyl ferrocene (CAS 93894-59-
                              8);
                      l.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Acetyl ferrocene (CAS 1271-55-2)
                              / 1,1'-diacetyl ferrocene (CAS 1273-94-5);
                      m.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR Ferrocene carboxylic acid (CAS
                              1271-42-7) / 1,1'-Ferrocenedicarboxylic acid (CAS 1293-87-4) ;
                      n.      SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR butacene (CAS 125856-62-4);
                      o.      Other ferrocene derivatives usable as rocket propellant burning rate modifiers,
                              other than those specified in the Military Goods Controls.
                              Note: 1C111.c.6.o. does not control ferrocene derivatives that contain a six
                                    carbon aromatic functional group attached to the ferrocene molecule.
               7.     4,5-Diazidomethyl-2-methyl-1,2,3-triazole (iso-DAMTR), other than that specified in the
                      Military Goods Controls.
        d.     'Gel propellants', other than that specified in the Military Goods Controls, specifically formulated
               for use in 'missiles'.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.     In 1C111.d. a 'gel propellant' is a fuel or oxidiser formulation using a gellant such as
                                          silicates, kaolin (clay), carbon or any polymeric gellant.
                                   2.     In 1C111.d. a 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle
                                          systems capable of a range exceeding 300 km.

        Note: For propellants and constituent chemicals for propellants not specified in 1C111, see the
              Military Goods Controls.
1C116   Maraging steels, useable in 'missiles', having all of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1C216.
        a.     Having an ultimate tensile strength, measured at 293 K (20°C), equal to or greater than:
               1.     0,9 GPa in the solution annealed stage; or
               2.     1,5 GPa in the precipitation hardened stage; and
        b.     Any of the following forms:
               1.     Sheet, plate or tubing with a wall or plate thickness equal to or less than 5,0 mm;



                                                                                                                      60
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

               2.     Tubular forms with a wall thickness equal to or less than 50 mm and having an inner
                      diameter equal to or greater than 270 mm.
        Technical Note 1:
        Maraging steels are iron alloy:
        1.    Generally characterised by high nickel, very low carbon content and the use of substitutional
              elements or precipitates to produce strengthening and age-hardening of the alloy;and
        2.    Subjected to heat treatment cycles to facilitate the martensitic transformation process (solution
              annealed stage) and subsequently age hardened (precipitation hardened stage).
1C116   continued
        Technical Note 2:
        In 1C116 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
1C117   Materials for the fabrication of 'missiles' components as follows:
        a.     Tungsten and alloys in particulate form with a tungsten content of 97% by weight or more and a
               particle size of 50 x 10-6 m (50 µm) or less;
        b.     Molybdenum and alloys in particulate form with a molybdenum content of 97% by weight or
               more and a particle size of 50 x 10-6 m (50 µm) or less;
        c.     Tungsten materials in solid form having all of the following:
               1.     Any of the following material compositions:
                      a.      Tungsten and alloys containing 97% by weight or more of tungsten;
                      b.      Copper infiltrated tungsten containing 80% by weight or more of tungsten; or
                      c.      Silver infiltrated tungsten containing 80% by weight ot more of tungsten; and
               2.     Able to be machined to any of the following products:
                      a.      Cylinders having a diameter of 120 mm or greater and a length of 50 mm or
                              greater;
                      b.      Tubes having an inner diameter of 65 mm or greater and a wall thickness of 25 mm
                              or greater and a length of 50 mm or greater; or
                      c.      Blocks having a size of 120 mm by 120 mm by 50 mm or greater.
        Technical Note:
        In 1C117 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
1C118   Titanium-stabilised duplex stainless steel (Ti-DSS) having all of the following:
        a.     Having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Containing 17,0 - 23,0% by weight of chromium and 4,5 - 7,0% by weight of nickel;
               2.     Having a titanium content of greater than 0,10% by weight; and
               3.     A ferritic-austenitic microstructure (also referred to as a two-phase microstructure) of
                      which at least 10% by volume (according to ASTM E-1181-87 or national equivalents)
                      is austenite; and
        b.     Having any of the following forms:
               1.     Ingots or bars having a size of 100 mm or more in each dimension;
               2.     Sheets having a width of 600 mm or more and a thickness of 3 mm or less; or
               3.     Tubes having an outer diameter of 600 mm or more and a wall thickness of 3 mm or less.
1C202   Alloys, other than those specified in 1C002.b.3. or .b.4., as follows:
        a.     Aluminium alloys having both of the following characteristics:


                                                                                                                  61
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

               1.     'Capable of' an ultimate tensile strength of 460 MPa or more at 293 K (20°C); and
               2.     In the form of tubes or cylindrical solid forms (including forgings) with an outside
                      diameter of more than 75 mm;
        b.     Titanium alloys having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     'Capable of' an ultimate tensile strength of 900 MPa or more at 293 K (20°C); and
               2.     In the form of tubes or cylindrical solid forms (including forgings) with an outside
                      diameter of more than 75 mm.

        Technical Note:
        The phrase alloys 'capable of' encompasses alloys before or after heat treatment.
1C210   'Fibrous or filamentary materials' or prepregs, other than those specified in 1C010.a., .b. or .e., as
        follows:
        a.     Carbon or aramid 'fibrous or filamentary materials' having either of the following characteristics:
               1.     A "specific modulus" of 12,7 x 106 m or greater; or
               2.     A "specific tensile strength" of 23,5 x 104 m or greater;
               Note: 1C210.a. does not control aramid 'fibrous or filamentary materials' having 0,25% by
                     weight or more of an ester based fibre surface modifier;
        b.     Glass 'fibrous or filamentary materials' having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     A "specific modulus" of 3,18 x 106 m or greater; and
               2.     A "specific tensile strength" of 7,62 x 104 m or greater;
        c.     Thermoset resin impregnated continuous "yarns", "rovings", "tows" or "tapes" with a width of
               15 mm or less (prepregs), made from carbon or glass 'fibrous or filamentary materials' specified
               in 1C210.a. or .b.
               Technical Note:
               The resin forms the matrix of the composite.
               Note: In 1C210, 'fibrous or filamentary materials' is restricted to continuous "monofilaments",
                     "yarns", "rovings", "tows" or "tapes".
1C216   Maraging steel, other than that specified in 1C116, 'capable of' an ultimate tensile strength of 1 950 MPa
        or more, at 293 K (20oC).
        Note: 1C216 does not control forms in which all linear dimensions are 75 mm or less.
        Technical Note:
        The phrase maraging steel 'capable of' encompasses maraging steel before or after heat treatment.
1C225   Boron enriched in the boron-10 (10B) isotope to greater than its natural isotopic abundance, as follows:
        elemental boron, compounds, mixtures containing boron, manufactures thereof, waste or scrap of any
        of the foregoing.
        Note: In 1C225 mixtures containing boron include boron loaded materials.
        Technical Note:
        The natural isotopic abundance of boron-10 is approximately 18,5 weight per cent (20 atom per cent).
1C226   Tungsten, tungsten carbide, and alloys containing more than 90% tungsten by weight, other than that
        specified in 1C117, having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     In forms with a hollow cylindrical symmetry (including cylinder segments) with an inside
               diameter between 100 mm and 300 mm; and
        b.     A mass greater than 20 kg.
        Note: 1C226 does not control manufactures specially designed as weights or gamma-ray collimators.



                                                                                                                     62
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1C227   Calcium having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     Containing less than 1 000 ppm by weight of metallic impurities other than magnesium; and
        b.     Containing less than 10 ppm by weight of boron.
1C228   Magnesium having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     Containing less than 200 ppm by weight of metallic impurities other than calcium; and
        b.     Containing less than 10 ppm by weight of boron.
1C229   Bismuth having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     A purity of 99,99% or greater by weight; and
        b.     Containing less than 10 ppm by weight of silver.
1C230   Beryllium metal, alloys containing more than 50% beryllium by weight, beryllium compounds,
        manufactures thereof, and waste or scrap of any of the foregoing, other than that specified in the Military
        Goods Controls.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        Note: 1C230 does not control the following:
                                   a.     Metal windows for X-ray machines, or for bore-hole logging devices;
                                   b.     Oxide shapes in fabricated or semi-fabricated forms specially designed for electronic
                                          component parts or as substrates for electronic circuits;
                                   c.     Beryl (silicate of beryllium and aluminium) in the form of emeralds or aquamarines.
1C231   Hafnium metal, alloys containing more than 60% hafnium by weight, hafnium compounds containing
        more than 60% hafnium by weight, manufactures thereof, and waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
1C232   Helium-3 (3He), mixtures containing helium-3, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing.
        Note: 1C232 does not control a product or device containing less than 1 g of helium-3.
1C233   Lithium enriched in the lithium-6 (6Li) isotope to greater than its natural isotopic abundance, and
        products or devices containing enriched lithium, as follows: elemental lithium, alloys, compounds,
        mixtures containing lithium, manufactures thereof, waste or scrap of any of the foregoing.
        Note: 1C233 does not control thermoluminescent dosimeters.
        Technical Note:
        The natural isotopic abundance of lithium-6 is approximately 6,5 weight per cent (7,5 atom per cent).
1C234   Zirconium with a hafnium content of less than 1 part hafnium to 500 parts zirconium by weight, as
        follows: metal, alloys containing more than 50% zirconium by weight, compounds, manufactures
        thereof, waste or scrap of any of the foregoing, other than those specified in 0A001.f.
        Note: 1C234 does not control zirconium in the form of foil having a thickness of 0,10 mm or less.
1C235   Tritium, tritium compounds, mixtures containing tritium in which the ratio of tritium to hydrogen atoms
        exceeds 1 part in 1 000, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing.
        Note: 1C235 does not control a product or device containing less than 1,48 x 103 GBq (40 Ci) of
              tritium.
1C236   'Radionuclides' appropriate for making neutron sources based on alpha-n reaction, other than those
        specified in 0C001 and 1C012.a., in the following forms:
        a.     Elemental;
        b.     Compounds having a total activity of 37 GBq/kg (1 Ci/kg) or greater;
        c.     Mixtures having a total activity of 37 GBq/kg (1 Ci/kg) or greater;
        d.     Products or devices containing any of the foregoing.




                                                                                                                      63
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

        Note: 1C236 does not control a product or device containing less than 3,7 GBq (100 millicuries) of
              activity.
        Technical Note:
                                   In 1C236 'radionuclides' are any of the following:
                                   –     Actinium-225 (225Ac)
                                   –     Actinium-227 (227Ac)
                                   –     Californium-253 (253Cf)
                                   –     Curium-240 (240Cm)
                                   –     Curium-241 (241Cm)
                                   –     Curium-242 (242Cm)
                                   –     Curium-243 (243Cm)
                                   –     Curium-244 (244Cm)
                                   –     Einsteinium-253 (253Es)
                                   –     Einsteinium-254 (254Es)
                                   –     Gadolinium-148 (148Gd)
                                   –     Plutonium-236 (236Pu)
                                   –     Plutonium-238 (238Pu)
                                   –     Polonium-208 ( 208Po)
                                   –     Polonium-209 (209Po)
                                   –     Polonium-210 (210Po)
                                   –     Radium-223 (223Ra)
                                   –     Thorium-227 (227Th)
                                   –     Thorium-228 (228Th)
                                   –     Uranium-230 (230U)
                                   –     Uranium-232 (232U)
1C237   Radium-226 (226Ra), radium-226 alloys, radium-226 compounds, mixtures containing radium-226,
        manufactures thereof, and products or devices containing any of the foregoing.
        Note: 1C237 does not control the following:
                                   a.    Medical applicators;
                                   b.    A product or device containing less than 0,37 GBq (10 millicuries) of radium-226.
1C238   Chlorine trifluoride (ClF3).
1C239   High explosives, other than those specified in the Military Goods Controls, or substances or mixtures
        containing more than 2% by weight thereof, with a crystal density greater than 1,8 g/cm3 and having a
        detonation velocity greater than 8 000 m/s.
1C240   Nickel powder and porous nickel metal, other than those specified in 0C005, as follows:
        a.     Nickel powder having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     A nickel purity content of 99,0% or greater by weight; and
               2.     A mean particle size of less than 10 µm measured by American Society for Testing and
                      Materials (ASTM) B330 standard;
        b.     Porous nickel metal produced from materials specified in 1C240.a.
        Note: 1C240 does not control the following:
                                   a.    Filamentary nickel powders;
                                   b.    Single porous nickel sheets with an area of 1 000 cm2 per sheet or less.
        Technical Note:
        1C240.b. refers to porous metal formed by compacting and sintering the materials in 1C240.a. to form
        a metal material with fine pores interconnected throughout the structure.
1C241   Rhenium, and alloys containing 90% by weight or more rhenium; and alloys of rhenium and tungsten
        containing 90% by weight or more of any combination of rhenium and tungsten, other than those
        specified in 1C226, having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     In forms with a hollow cylindrical symmetry (including cylinder segments) with an inside
               diameter between 100 and 300 mm; and


                                                                                                                64
         CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

        b.     A mass greater than 20 kg.
1C350   Chemicals, which may be used as precursors for toxic chemical agents, as follows, and "chemical
        mixtures" containing one or more thereof:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS AND 1C450.
                                   1.    Thiodiglycol (CAS 111-48-8);
                                   2.    Phosphorus oxychloride (CAS 10025-87-3);
                                   3.    Dimethyl methylphosphonate (CAS 756-79-6);
                                   4.    SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS for Methyl phosphonyl difluoride (CAS 676-99-3);
                                   5.    Methyl phosphonyl dichloride (CAS 676-97-1);
                                   6.    Dimethyl phosphite (DMP) (CAS 868-85-9);
                                   7.    Phosphorus trichloride (CAS 7719-12-2);
                                   8.    Trimethyl phosphite (TMP) (CAS 121-45-9);
                                   9.    Thionyl chloride (CAS 7719-09-7);
                                   10.   3-Hydroxy-1-methylpiperidine (CAS 3554-74-3);
                                   11.   N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethyl chloride (CAS 96-79-7);
                                   12.   N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethane thiol (CAS 5842-07-9);
                                   13.   3-Quinuclidinol (CAS 1619-34-7);
                                   14.   Potassium fluoride (CAS 7789-23-3);
                                   15.    2-Chloroethanol (CAS 107-07-3);
                                   16.    Dimethylamine (CAS 124-40-3);
                                   17.    Diethyl ethylphosphonate (CAS 78-38-6);
                                   18.    Diethyl N,N-dimethylphosphoramidate (CAS 2404-03-7);
                                   19.    Diethyl phosphite (CAS 762-04-9);
                                   20.    Dimethylamine hydrochloride (CAS 506-59-2);
                                   21.    Ethyl phosphinyl dichloride (CAS 1498-40-4);
                                   22.    Ethyl phosphonyl dichloride (CAS 1066-50-8);
                                   23.    SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS for Ethyl phosphonyl difluoride (CAS 753-98-0);
                                   24.    Hydrogen fluoride (CAS 7664-39-3);
                                   25.    Methyl benzilate (CAS 76-89-1);
                                   26.    Methyl phosphinyl dichloride (CAS 676-83-5);
                                   27.    N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-amino ethanol (CAS 96-80-0);
                                   28.    Pinacolyl alcohol (CAS 464-07-3);
                                   29.    SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS for O-Ethyl O-2-diisopropylaminoethyl
                                          methylphosphonite (QL) (CAS 57856-11-8);
                                   30.    Triethyl phosphite (CAS 122-52-1);
                                   31.    Arsenic trichloride (CAS 7784-34-1);
                                   32.    Benzilic acid (CAS 76-93-7);
                                   33.    Diethyl methylphosphonite (CAS 15715-41-0);
                                   34.    Dimethyl ethylphosphonate (CAS 6163-75-3);
                                   35.    Ethyl phosphinyl difluoride (CAS 430-78-4);
                                   36.    Methyl phosphinyl difluoride (CAS 753-59-3);
                                   37.    3-Quinuclidone (CAS 3731-38-2);
                                   38.    Phosphorus pentachloride (CAS 10026-13-8);
                                   39.    Pinacolone (CAS 75-97-8);
                                   40.    Potassium cyanide (CAS 151-50-8);
                                   41.    Potassium bifluoride (CAS 7789-29-9);
                                   42.    Ammonium hydrogen fluoride or ammonium bifluoride (CAS 1341-49-7);
                                   43.    Sodium fluoride (CAS 7681-49-4);
                                   44.    Sodium bifluoride (CAS 1333-83-1);
                                   45.    Sodium cyanide (CAS 143-33-9);
                                   46.    Triethanolamine (CAS 102-71-6);
                                   47.    Phosphorus pentasulphide (CAS 1314-80-3);
                                   48.    Di-isopropylamine (CAS 108-18-9);
                                   49.    Diethylaminoethanol (CAS 100-37-8);
                                   50.    Sodium sulphide (CAS 1313-82-2);
                                   51.   Sulphur monochloride (CAS 10025-67-9);
                                   52.   Sulphur dichloride (CAS 10545-99-0);
                                   53.   Triethanolamine hydrochloride (CAS 637-39-8);
                                   54.   N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethyl chloride hydrochloride (CAS 4261-68-1);
                                   55.   Methylphosphonic acid (CAS 993-13-5);
                                   56.   Diethyl methylphosphonate (CAS 683-08-9);
                                   57.   N,N-Dimethylaminophosphoryl dichloride (CAS 677-43-0);
                                   58.   Triisopropyl phosphite (CAS 116-17-6);
                                   59.   Ethyldiethanolamine (CAS 139-87-7);
                                   60.   O,O-Diethyl phosphorothioate (CAS 2465-65-8);
                                   61.   O,O-Diethyl phosphorodithioate (CAS 298-06-6);
                                   62.   Sodium hexafluorosilicate (CAS 16893-85-9);
                                   63.   Methylphosphonothioic dichloride (CAS 676-98-2);
                                   64.   Diethylamine (CAS 109-89-7);
                                   65.   N,N-Diisopropylaminoethanethiol hydrochloride (CAS 41480-75-5);
                                   66.   Methyl dichlorophosphate (CAS 677-24-7);
                                   67.   Ethyl dichlorophosphate (CAS 1498-51-7);
                                   68.   Methyl difluorophosphate (CAS 22382-13-4);
                                   69.   Ethyl difluorophosphate (CAS 460-52-6);
                                   70.   Diethyl chlorophosphite (CAS 589-57-1);
                                   71.   Methyl chlorofluorophosphate (CAS 754-01-8);
                                   72.   Ethyl chlorofluorophosphate (CAS 762-77-6);
                                   73.    N,N-Dimethylformamidine (CAS 44205-42-7);
                                   74.    N,N-Diethylformamidine (CAS 90324-67-7);
                                   75.    N,N-Dipropylformamidine (CAS 48044-20-8);
                                   76.    N,N-Diisopropylformamidine (CAS 857522-08-8);
                                   77.    N,N-Dimethylacetamidine (CAS 2909-14-0);
                                   78.    N,N-Diethylacetamidine (CAS 14277-06-6);
                                   79.    N,N-Dipropylacetamidine (CAS 1339586-99-0);
                                   80.    N,N-Dimethylpropanamidine (CAS 56776-14-8);
                                   81.    N,N-Diethylpropanamidine (CAS 84764-73-8);
                                   82.    N,N-Dipropylpropanamidine (CAS 1341496-89-6);
                                   83.    N,N-Dimethylbutanamidine (CAS 1340437-35-5);
                                   84.    N,N-Diethylbutanamidine (CAS 53510-30-8);
                                   85.    N,N-Dipropylbutanamidine (CAS 1342422-35-8);
                                   86.    N,N-Diisopropylbutanamidine (CAS 1315467-17-4);
                                   87.    N,N-Dimethylisobutanamidine (CAS 321881-25-8);
                                   88.    N,N-Diethylisobutanamidine (CAS 1342789-47-2);
                                   89.    N,N-Dipropylisobutanamidine (CAS 1342700-45-1).
         Note 1:      For exports to "States not Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention", 1C350 does not
                      control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals specified in entries
                      1C350.1, .3, .5, .11, .12, .13, .17, .18, .21, .22, .26, .27, .28, .31, .32, .33, .34, .35, .36, .54,
                      .55, .56, .57, .63 and .65 in which no individually specified chemical constitutes more
                      than 10% by the weight of the mixture.
         Note 2:      For exports to "States Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention", 1C350 does not
                      control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals specified in entries
                      1C350.1, .3, .5, .11, .12, .13, .17, .18, .21, .22, .26, .27, .28, .31, .32, .33, .34, .35, .36, .54,
                      .55, .56, .57, .63 and .65 in which no individually specified chemical constitutes more
                      than 30% by the weight of the mixture.
         Note 3:      1C350 does not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals
                      specified in entries 1C350.2, .6, .7, .8, .9, .10, .14, .15, .16, .19, .20, .24, .25, .30, .37, .38,
                      .39, .40, .41, .42, .43, .44, .45, .46, .47, .48, .49, .50, .51, .52, .53, .58, .59, .60, .61, .62,
                      .64, .66, .67, .68, .69, .70, .71, .72, .73, .74, .75, .76, .77, .78, .79, .80, .81, .82, .83, .84,
                      .85, .86, .87, .88 and .89 in which no individually specified chemical constitutes more
                      than 30% by the weight of the mixture.
        Note 4:      1C350 does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail sale
                     for personal use or packaged for individual use.

1C351   Human and animal pathogens and "toxins", as follows:
        a.    Viruses, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of "isolated live cultures" or
              as material including living material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated
              with such cultures, as follows:
              1.     African horse sickness virus;
              2.     African swine fever virus;
              3.     Andes virus;
              4.     Avian influenza virus, which are:
                     a.     Uncharacterised; or
                     b.     Defined in Annex I(2) EC Directive 2005/94/EC (O.J. L.10 14.1.2006 p.16) as
                            having high pathogenicity, as follows:
                            1.     Type A viruses with an IVPI (intravenous pathogenicity index) in 6 week
                                   old chickens of greater than 1,2; or
                            2.     Type A viruses of the subtypes H5 or H7 with genome sequences codified
                                   for multiple basic amino acids at the cleavage site of the haemagglutinin
                                   molecule similar to that observed for other HPAI viruses, indicating that
                                   the haemagglutinin molecule can be cleaved by a host ubiquitous protease;
              5.     Bluetongue virus;
              6.     Chapare virus;
              7.     Chikungunya virus;
              8.     Choclo virus;
              9.     Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus;
              10.    Not used;
              11.    Dobrava-Belgrade virus;
              12.    Eastern equine encephalitis virus;
              13.    Ebolavirus: all members of the Ebolavirus genus;
              14.    Foot-and-mouth disease virus;
              15.    Goatpox virus;
              16.    Guanarito virus;
              17.    Hantaan virus;
              18.    Hendra virus (Equine morbillivirus);
              19.    Suid herpesvirus 1 (Pseudorabies virus; Aujeszky's disease);
              20.    Classical swine fever virus (Hog cholera virus);
              21.    Japanese encephalitis virus;
              22.    Junin virus;
              23.    Kyasanur Forest disease virus;
              24.    Laguna Negra virus;
              25.    Lassa virus;
              26.    Louping ill virus;
              27.    Lujo virus;
              28.    Lumpy skin disease virus;
              29.    Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus;
              30.    Machupo virus;
              31.    Marburgvirus: all members of the Marburgvirus genus;
              32.    Monkeypox virus;
              33.    Murray Valley encephalitis virus;
              34.    Newcastle disease virus;
              35.    Nipah virus;
              36.    Omsk hemorrhagic fever virus;
              37.    Oropouche virus;
              38.    Peste-des-petits-ruminants virus;
              39.    Swine vesicular disease virus;
              40.    Powassan virus;

              41.    Rabies virus and all other members of the Lyssavirus genus;
              42.    Rift Valley fever virus;
              43.    Rinderpest virus;
              44.    Rocio virus;
              45.    Sabia virus;
              46.    Seoul virus;
              47.    Sheeppox virus;
              48.    Sin Nombre virus;
              49.    St. Louis encephalitis virus;
              50.    Porcine Teschovirus;
              51.    Tick-borne encephalitis virus (Far Eastern subtype);
              52.    Variola virus;
              53.    Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus;
              54.    Vesicular stomatitis virus;
              55.    Western equine encephalitis virus;
              56.    Yellow fever virus;
              57.    Severe acute respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (SARS-related coronavirus);
              58.    Reconstructed 1918 influenza virus;
              59.    Middle East respiratory syndrome-related coronavirus (MERS-related coronavirus);
        b.    Not used;
        c.    Bacteria, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of "isolated live cultures" or
              as material including living material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated
              with such cultures, as follows:
              1.     Bacillus anthracis;
1C351 continued

              2.     Brucella abortus;
              3.     Brucella melitensis;
              4.     Brucella suis;
              5.     Burkholderia mallei (Pseudomonas mallei);
              6.     Burkholderia pseudomallei (Pseudomonas pseudomallei);
              7.     Chlamydia psittaci (Chlamydophila psittaci);
              8.     Clostridium argentinense (formerly known as Clostridium botulinum Type G), botulinum
                     neurotoxin producing strains;
              9.     Clostridium baratii, botulinum neurotoxin producing strains;
              10.    Clostridium botulinum;
              11.    Clostridium butyricum, botulinum neurotoxin producing strains;
              12     Clostridium perfringens epsilon toxin producing types;
              13.    Coxiella burnetii;
              14.    Francisella tularensis;
              15.    Mycoplasma capricolum subspecies capripneumoniae (strain F38);
              16.    Mycoplasma mycoides subspecies mycoides SC (small colony);
              17.    Rickettsia prowazekii;
              18.    Salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar Typhi (Salmonella typhi);
              19.    Shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli (STEC) of serogroups O26, O45, O103, O104,
                     O111, O121, O145, O157, and other shiga toxin producing serogroups;
                     Note:
                     Shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli (STEC) includes inter alia enterohaemorrhagic
                     E. coli (EHEC), verotoxin producing E. coli (VTEC) or verocytotoxin producing E. coli
                     (VTEC).
              20.    Shigella dysenteriae;
              21.    Vibrio cholerae;
              22.    Yersinia pestis;
        d.    "Toxins", as follows, and "sub-unit of toxins" thereof:
              1.     Botulinum toxins;
              2.     Clostridium perfringens alpha, beta 1, beta 2, epsilon and iota toxins;


                3.     Conotoxins;
                4.     Ricin;
                5.     Saxitoxin;
                6.     Shiga toxins (shiga-like toxins, verotoxins and verocytotoxins)
                7.     Staphylococcus aureus enterotoxins, hemolysin alpha toxin, and toxic shock syndrome
                       toxin (formerly known as Staphylococcus enterotoxin F);
                8.     Tetrodotoxin;
                9.     Not used;
                10.    Microcystins (Cyanginosins);
                11.    Aflatoxins;
                12.    Abrin;
                13.    Cholera toxin;
                14.    Diacetoxyscirpenol;
                15.    T-2 toxin;
                16.    HT-2 toxin;
                17.    Modeccin;
                18.    Volkensin;
                19.    Viscumin (Viscum Album Lectin 1);
                Note: 1C351.d. does not control botulinum toxins or conotoxins in product form meeting all of
                       the following criteria:
                       1.      Are pharmaceutical formulations designed for human administration in the
                               treatment of medical conditions;
                       2.      Are pre-packaged for distribution as medical products;
                       3.      Are authorised by a state authority to be marketed as medical products.
         e.     Fungi, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of "isolated live cultures" or as
                material including living material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated with
                such cultures, as follows:

                1.     Coccidioides immitis;
                2.     Coccidioides posadasii.
         Note: 1C351 does not control "vaccines" or "immunotoxins".
1C353    'Genetic elements' and 'genetically-modified organisms', as follows:
         a.     Any 'genetically-modified organism' which contains, or 'genetic element' that codes for, any of
                the following:
                1.     Any gene or genes specific to any virus specified in 1C351.a. or 1C354.a.;
                2.     Any gene or genes specific to any bacterium specified in 1C351.c. or 1C354.b. or fungus
                       specified in 1C351.e. or 1C354.c., and which is any of the following:
                       a.     In itself or through its transcribed or translated products represents a significant
                              hazard to human, animal or plant health; or
                       b.     Could 'endow or enhance pathogenicity'; or
                3.     Any "toxins" specified in 1C351.d. or "sub-units of toxins" therefor;
         b.     Not used.
         Technical Notes:
                                   1.     'Genetically-modified organisms' include organisms in which the nucleic acid sequences have
                                          been created or altered by deliberate molecular manipulation.
                                   2.     'Genetic elements' include inter alia chromosomes, genomes, plasmids, transposons, vectors and
                                          inactivated organisms containing recoverable nucleic acid fragments, whether genetically
                                          modified or unmodified, or chemically synthesized in whole or in part. For the purposes of the
                                          genetic elements control, nucleic acids from an inactivated organism, virus, or sample are


                                                                                                                     69
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

               considered recoverable if the inactivation and preparation of the material is intended or known
               to facilitate isolation, purification, amplification, detection, or identification of nucleic acids.
        3.     'Endow or enhance pathogenicity' is defined as when the insertion or integration of the nucleic
               acid sequence or sequences is/are likely to enable or increase a recipient organism’sability to
               be used to deliberately cause disease or death. This might include alterations to, inter alia:
               virulence, transmissibility, stability, route of infection, host range, reproducibility, ability to
               evade or suppress host immunity, resistance to medical countermeasures, or detectability.
        Note 1:       1C353 does not control nucleic acid sequences of shiga toxin producing Escherichia coli
                      of serogroups O26, O45, O103, O104, O111, O121, O145, O157, and other shiga toxin
                      producing serogroups, other than those genetic elements coding for shiga toxin, or for its
                      subunits.
        Note 2:       1C353 does not control "vaccines".
1C354   Plant pathogens, as follows:
        a.     Viruses, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of "isolated live cultures" or
               as material including living material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated
               with such cultures, as follows:
               1.     Andean potato latent virus (Potato Andean latent tymovirus);
               2.     Potato spindle tuber viroid;
        b.     Bacteria, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of "isolated live cultures" or
               as material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated with such cultures, as
               follows:
               1.     Xanthomonas albilineans;
               2.     Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. citri (Xanthomonas campestris pv. citri A) [Xanthomonas
                      campestris pv. citri];


1C354 continued

               3.     Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Pseudomonas campestris pv. oryzae);
               4.     Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. sepedonicus (Corynebacterium michiganensis subsp.
                      sepedonicum or Corynebacterium sepedonicum);
               5.     Ralstonia solanacearum, race 3, biovar 2;
        c.     Fungi, whether natural, enhanced or modified, either in the form of "isolated live cultures" or as
               material which has been deliberately inoculated or contaminated with such cultures, as follows:
               1.     Colletotrichum kahawae (Colletotrichum coffeanum var. virulans);
               2.     Cochliobolus miyabeanus (Helminthosporium oryzae);
               3.     Microcyclus ulei (syn. Dothidella ulei);
               4.     Puccinia graminis ssp. graminis var. graminis / Puccinia graminis ssp. graminis var.
                      stakmanii (Puccinia graminis [syn. Puccinia graminis f. sp. tritici]);
               5.     Puccinia striiformis (syn. Puccinia glumarum);
               6.     Magnaporthe oryzae (Pyricularia oryzae);
               7.     Peronosclerospora philippinensis (Peronosclerospora sacchari);
               8.     Sclerophthora rayssiae var. zeae;
               9.     Synchytrium endobioticium;
               10.    Tilletia indica;
               11.    Thecaphora solani.
1C450   Toxic chemicals and toxic chemical precursors, as follows, and "chemical mixtures" containing one or
        more thereof:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO ENTRY 1C350, 1C351.d. AND MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.



                                                                                                                      70
CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

       a.   Toxic chemicals, as follows:
              1.    Amiton: O,O-Diethyl S-[2-(diethylamino)ethyl] phosphorothiolate (CAS 78-53-5) and
                     corresponding alkylated or protonated salts;
              2.    PFIB: 1,1,3,3,3-Pentafluoro-2-(trifluoromethyl)-1-propene (CAS 382-21-8);
              3.    SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS FOR BZ: 3-Quinuclidinyl benzilate (CAS
                     6581-06-2);
              4.    Phosgene: Carbonyl dichloride (CAS 75-44-5);
              5.    Cyanogen chloride (CAS 506-77-4);
              6.    Hydrogen cyanide (CAS 74-90-8);
              7.    Chloropicrin: Trichloronitromethane (CAS 76-06-2);

              Note 1:      For exports to "States not Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention", 1C450
                            does not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals
                            specified in entries 1C450.a.1. and .a.2. in which no individually specified
                            chemical constitutes more than 1% by the weight of the mixture.
              Note 2:      For exports to "States Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention", 1C450 does
                            not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals specified
                            in entries 1C450.a.1. and .a.2. in which no individually specified chemical
                            constitutes more than 30% by the weight of the mixture.
              Note 3:      1C450 does not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the
                            chemicals specified in entries 1C450.a.4., .a.5., .a.6. and .a.7. in which no
                            individually specified chemical constitutes more than 30% by the weight of the
                            mixture.
              Note 4:      1C450 does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail
                     sale for personal use or packaged for individual use.




                                                                                                      71
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1C450 continued

        b.   Toxic chemical precursors, as follows:
              1.     Chemicals, other than those specified in the Military Goods Controls or in 1C350,
                     containing a phosphorus atom to which is bonded one methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or
                     iso) group but not further carbon atoms;
                     Note: 1C450.b.1.    does      not    control    Fonofos:           O-Ethyl       S-phenyl
                            ethylphosphonothiolothionate (CAS 944-22-9);
              2.     N,N-Dialkyl [methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso)] phosphoramidic dihalides, other
                     than N,N-Dimethylaminophosphoryl dichloride;
                     N.B.: See 1C350.57. for N,N-Dimethylaminophosphoryl dichloride.
              3.     Dialkyl [methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso)] N,N-dialkyl [methyl, ethyl or propyl
                     (normal or iso)]-phosphoramidates, other than Diethyl-N,N-dimethylphosphoramidate
                     which is specified in 1C350;
              4.     N,N-Dialkyl [methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso)] aminoethyl-2-chlorides and
                     corresponding protonated salts, other than N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethyl chloride
                     or N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethyl chloride hydrochloride which are specified in
                     1C350;
              5.     N,N-Dialkyl [methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso)] aminoethane-2-ols and
                     corresponding protonated salts, other than N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethanol (CAS
                     96-80-0) and N,N-Diethylaminoethanol (CAS 100-37-8) which are specified in 1C350;
                     Note: 1C450.b.5. does not control the following:
                                          a.    N,N-Dimethylaminoethanol (CAS 108-01-0) and corresponding
                                                 protonated salts;
                                          b.    Protonated salts of N,N-Diethylaminoethanol (CAS 100-37-8);
              6.     N,N-Dialkyl [methyl, ethyl or propyl (normal or iso)] aminoethane-2-thiols and
                     corresponding protonated salts, other than N,N-Diisopropyl-(beta)-aminoethane thiol
                     (CAS 5842-07-9) and N,N-Diisopropylaminoethanethiol hydrochloride (CAS 41480-75-
                     5) which are specified in 1C350;
              7.     See 1C350 for ethyldiethanolamine (CAS 139-87-7);
              8.     Methyldiethanolamine (CAS 105-59-9).
              Note 1:      For exports to "States not Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention", 1C450
                            does not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals
                            specified in entries 1C450.b.1., .b.2., .b.3., .b.4., .b.5. and .b.6. in which no
                            individually specified chemical constitutes more than 10% by the weight of the
                            mixture.
              Note 2:      For exports to "States Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention", 1C450 does
                            not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the chemicals specified
                            in entries 1C450.b.1., .b.2., .b.3., .b.4., .b.5. and .b.6. in which no individually
                            specified chemical constitutes more than 30% by the weight of the mixture.
              Note 3:      1C450 does not control "chemical mixtures" containing one or more of the
                            chemicals specified in entry 1C450.b.8. in which no individually specified
                            chemical constitutes more than 30% by the weight of the mixture.
              Note 4:      1C450 does not control products identified as consumer goods packaged for retail
                            sale for personal use or packaged for individual use.




                                                                                                                 72
        CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

1D      Software
1D001   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment
        specified in 1B001 to 1B003.
1D002   "Software" for the "development" of organic "matrix", metal "matrix" or carbon "matrix" laminates or
        "composites".
1D003   "Software" specially designed or modified to enable equipment to perform the functions of equipment
        specified in 1A004.c. or 1A004.d.
1D101   "Software" specially designed or modified for the operation or maintenance of goods specified in
        1B101, 1B102, 1B115, 1B117, 1B118 or 1B119.
1D103   "Software" specially designed for analysis of reduced observables such as radar reflectivity,
        ultraviolet/infrared signatures and acoustic signatures.
1D201   "Software" specially designed for the "use" of goods specified in 1B201.


1E      Technology
1E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of
        equipment or materials specified in 1A002 to 1A005, 1A006.b., 1A007, 1B or 1C.
1E002   Other "technology" as follows:
        a.     "Technology" for      the   "development"     or   "production"     of     polybenzothiazoles   or
               polybenzoxazoles;
        b.     "Technology" for the "development" or "production" of fluoroelastomer compounds containing
               at least one vinylether monomer;
        c.     "Technology" for the design or "production" of the following ceramic powders or non-
               "composite" ceramic materials:
               1.     Ceramic powders having all of the following:
                      a.     Any of the following compositions:
                             1.     Single or complex oxides of zirconium and complex oxides of silicon or
                                    aluminium;
                             2.     Single nitrides of boron (cubic crystalline forms);
                             3.     Single or complex carbides of silicon or boron; or
                             4.     Single or complex nitrides of silicon;
                      b.     Any of the following total metallic impurities (excluding intentional additions):
                             1.     Less than 1 000 ppm for single oxides or carbides; or
                             2.     Less than 5 000 ppm for complex compounds or single nitrides; and
                      c.     Being any of the following:
                             1.     Zirconia (CAS 1314-23-4) with an average particle size equal to or less
                                    than 1 µm and no more than 10% of the particles larger than 5 µm; or
                             2.     Other ceramic powders with an average particle size equal to or less than
                                    5 µm and no more than 10% of the particles larger than 10 µm;
               2.     Non-"composite" ceramic materials composed of the materials specified in 1E002.c.1.;
                      Note: 1E002.c.2. does not control "technology" for abrasives.
        d.     Not used;
        e.     "Technology" for the installation, maintenance or repair of materials specified in 1C001;



                                                                                                                    73
         CATEGORY 1 – SPECIAL MATERIALS AND RELATED EQUIPMENT

         f.    "Technology" for the repair of "composite" structures, laminates or materials specified in 1A002
               or 1C007.c.;
1E002   continued

               Note: 1E002.f. does not control "technology" for the repair of "civil aircraft" structures using
                     carbon "fibrous or filamentary materials" and epoxy resins, contained in "aircraft"
                     manufacturers' manuals.
         g.    "Libraries" specially designed or modified to enable equipment to perform the functions of
               equipment specified in 1A004.c. or 1A004.d.
1E101    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of goods specified in 1A102,
         1B001, 1B101, 1B102, 1B115 to 1B119, 1C001, 1C101, 1C107, 1C111 to 1C118, 1D101 or 1D103.
1E102    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of "software" specified
         in 1D001, 1D101 or 1D103.
1E103    "Technology" for the regulation of temperature, pressure or atmosphere in autoclaves or hydroclaves,
         when used for the "production" of "composites" or partially processed "composites".
1E104    "Technology" for the "production" of pyrolytically derived materials formed on a mould, mandrel or
         other substrate from precursor gases which decompose in the 1 573 K (1 300°C) to 3 173 K (2 900°C)
         temperature range at pressures of 130 Pa to 20 kPa.
         Note: 1E104 includes "technology" for the composition of precursor gases, flow-rates and process
               control schedules and parameters.
1E201    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of goods specified in 1A002,
         1A007, 1A202, 1A225 to 1A227, 1B201, 1B225 to 1B234, 1C002.b.3. or .b.4., 1C010.b., 1C202,
         1C210, 1C216, 1C225 to 1C241 or 1D201.
1E202    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of
         goods specified in 1A007, 1A202 or 1A225 to 1A227.
1E203    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of "software" specified
         in 1D201.




                                                                                                                  74
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING



CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

2A001   Anti-friction bearings, bearing systems and components, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2A101.
        a.     Ball bearings and solid roller bearings, having all tolerances specified by the manufacturer in
               accordance with ISO 492 Tolerance Class 4 or Class 2 (or national equivalents), or better, and
               having both 'rings' and 'rolling elements', made from monel or beryllium;
               Note: 2A001.a. does not control tapered roller bearings.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Ring' - annular part of a radial rolling bearing incorporating one or more raceways (ISO
                                          5593:1997).
                                   2.    'Rolling element' - ball or roller which rolls between raceways (ISO 5593:1997).
        b.     Not used;
        c.     Active magnetic bearing systems using any of the following, and specially designed components
               therefor:
               1.     Materials with flux densities of 2,0 T or greater and yield strengths greater than 414 MPa;
               2.     All-electromagnetic 3D homopolar bias designs for actuators; or
               3.     High temperature (450 K (177°C) and above) position sensors.
2A101   Radial ball bearings, other than those specified in 2A001, having all tolerances specified in accordance
        with ISO 492 Tolerance Class 2 (or ANSI/ABMA Std 20 Tolerance Class ABEC-9 or other national
        equivalents), or better and having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     An inner ring bore diameter between 12 mm and 50 mm;
        b.     An outer ring outside diameter between 25 mm and 100 mm; and
        c.     A width between 10 mm and 20 mm.
2A225   Crucibles made of materials resistant to liquid actinide metals, as follows:
        a.     Crucibles having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     A volume of between 150 cm3 and 8 000 cm3; and
               2.     Made of or coated with any of the following materials, or combination of the following
                      materials, having an overall impurity level of 2% or less by weight:
                      a.     Calcium fluoride (CaF2);
                      b.     Calcium zirconate (metazirconate) (CaZrO3);
                      c.     Cerium sulphide (Ce2S3);
                      d.     Erbium oxide (erbia) (Er2O3);
                      e.     Hafnium oxide (hafnia) (HfO2);
                      f.     Magnesium oxide (MgO);
                      g.     Nitrided niobium-titanium-tungsten alloy (approximately 50% Nb, 30% Ti,
                             20% W);
                      h.     Yttrium oxide (yttria) (Y2O3); or
                      i.     Zirconium oxide (zirconia) (ZrO2);
        b.     Crucibles having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     A volume of between 50 cm3 and 2 000 cm3; and
               2.     Made of or lined with tantalum, having a purity of 99,9% or greater by weight;



                                                                                                                    75
                         CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

        c.     Crucibles having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     A volume of between 50 cm3 and 2 000 cm3;
2A225 continued

               2.     Made of or lined with tantalum, having a purity of 98% or greater by weight; and
               3.     Coated with tantalum carbide, nitride, boride, or any combination thereof.
2A226   Valves having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     A 'nominal size' of 5 mm or greater;
        b.     Having a bellows seal; and
        c.     Wholly made of or lined with aluminium, aluminium alloy, nickel, or nickel alloy containing
               more than 60% nickel by weight.
        Technical Note:
        For valves with different inlet and outlet diameters, the 'nominal size' in 2A226 refers to the smallest
        diameter.2B Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    Secondary parallel contouring axes, (e.g., the w-axis on horizontal boring mills or a secondary
                                          rotary axis the centre line of which is parallel to the primary rotary axis) are not counted in the
                                          total number of contouring axes. Rotary axes need not rotate over 360°. A rotary axis can be
                                          driven by a linear device (e.g., a screw or a rack-and-pinion).
                                   2.    For the purposes of 2B, the number of axes which can be co-ordinated simultaneously for
                                          "contouring control" is the number of axes along or around which, during processing of the
                                          workpiece, simultaneous and interrelated motions are performed between the workpiece and a
                                          tool. This does not include any additional axes along or around which other relative movement
                                          within the machine are performed such as:
                                          a.     Wheel-dressing systems in grinding machines;
                                          b.     Parallel rotary axes designed for mounting of separate workpieces;
                                          c.     Co-linear rotary axes designed for manipulating the same workpiece by holding it in a
                                                 chuck from different ends.
                                   3.    Axis nomenclature shall be in accordance with International Standard ISO 841:2001, Industrial
                                          automation systems and integration - Numerical control of machines - Coordinate system and
                                          motion nomenclature.
                                   4.    For the purposes of 2B001 to 2B009 a "tilting spindle" is counted as a rotary axis.
                                   5.    'Stated "unidirectional positioning repeatability"' may be used for each machine tool model as
                                          an alternative to individual machine tests and is determined as follows:
                                          a.     Select five machines of a model to be evaluated;
                                          b.     Measure the linear axis repeatability (R↑,R↓) according to ISO 230-2:2014 and evaluate
                                                 "unidirectional positioning repeatability" for each axis of each of the five machines;
                                          c.     Determine the arithmetic mean value of the "unidirectional positioning repeatability"-
                                                 values for each axis of all five machines together. These arithmetic mean values of
                                                 "unidirectional positioning repeatability" ( UPR ) become the stated value of each axis
                                                 for the model ( UPR x, UPR y, …);
                                          d.      Since the Category 2 list refers to each linear axis there will be as many 'stated
                                                 "unidirectional positioning repeatability" values as there are linear axes;
                                          e.      If any axis of a machine model not specified in 2B001.a. to 2B001.c. has a 'stated
                                                 "unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less than the specified
                                                 "unidirectional positioning repeatability" of each machine tool model plus 0,7 µm, the
                                                 builder should be required to reaffirm the accuracy level once every eighteen months.
                                   6.     For the purposes of 2B001.a. to 2B001.c., measurement uncertainty for the "unidirectional
                                          positioning repeatability" of machine tools, as defined in the International Standard
                                          ISO 230-2:2014 or national equivalents, shall not be considered.
                                   7.     For the purpose of 2B001.a. to 2B001.c., the measurement of axes shall be made according to
                                          test procedures in 5.3.2. of ISO 230-2:2014. Tests for axes longer than 2 meters shall be made



                                                                                                                    76
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

               over 2 m segments. Axes longer than 4 m require multiple tests (e.g., two tests for axes longer
               than 4 m and up to 8 m, three tests for axes longer than 8 m and up to 12 m), each over 2 m
               segments and distributed in equal intervals over the axis length. Test segments are equally
               spaced along the full axis length, with any excess length equally divided at the beginning, in
               between, and at the end of the test segments. The smallest "unidirectional positioning
               repeatability"-value of all test segments is to be reported.
2B001   Machine tools and any combination thereof, for removing (or cutting) metals, ceramics or "composites",
        which, according to the manufacturer’s technical specification, can be equipped with electronic devices
        for "numerical control", as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B201.
        Note 1:       2B001 does not control special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of
                      gears. For such machines see 2B003.
        Note 2:       2B001 does not control special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of any
                      of the following:
                                          a.     Crankshafts or camshafts;
                                          b.     Tools or cutters;
                                          c.     Extruder worms;
                                          d.     Engraved or facetted jewellery parts; or
                                          e.     Dental prostheses.
        Note 3:       A machine tool having at least two of the three turning, milling or grinding capabilities
                      (e.g., a turning machine with milling capability), must be evaluated against each
                      applicable entry 2B001.a., b. or c.
        Note 4:       A machine tool having an additive manufacturing capability in addition to a turning,
                      milling or grinding capability must be evaluated against each applicable entry 2B001.a.,
                      .b. or .c.
        N.B.   For optical finishing machines, see 2B002.
        a.     Machine tools for turning having two or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for
               "contouring control" having any of the following:
               1.    "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 0,9 µm along one
                     or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1,0 m; or
               2.    "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 1,1 µm along one
                     or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1,0 m;
               Note 1: 2B001.a. does not control turning machines specially designed for producing contact
                       lenses, having all of the following:
                       a. Machine controller limited to using ophthalmic based software for part
                            programming data input; and
                       b. No vacuum chucking.
               Note 2: 2B001.a. does not control bar machines (Swissturn), limited to machining only bar feed
                       thru, if maximum bar diameter is equal to or less than 42 mm and there is no capability
                       of mounting chucks. Machines may have drilling or milling capabilities for machining
                       parts with diameters less than 42 mm.
        b.     Machine tools for milling having any of the following:
               1.     Three linear axes plus one rotary axis which can be coordinated simultaneously for
                      "contouring control" having any of the following:
                      a.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 0,9 µm
                             along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1,0 m; or
                      b.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 1,1 µm
                             along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1,0m;




                                                                                                                  77
                            CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

                2.     Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control"
                       having any of the following;
                       a.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 0,9 µm
                              along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1,0 m;
                       b.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 1,4 µm
                              along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1 m and
                              less than 4 m; or
                       c.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 6,0 µm
                              (along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 4 m;
2B001.b.        continued

                3.     A "unidirectional positioning repeatability" for jig boring machines, equal to or less
                       (better) than 1,1 µm along one or more linear axis; or
                4.     Fly cutting machines having all of the following:
                       a.     Spindle "run-out" and "camming" less (better) than 0,0004 mm TIR; and
                       b.     Angular deviation of slide movement (yaw, pitch and roll) less (better) than
                              2 seconds of arc, TIR over 300 mm of travel;
           c.   Machine tools for grinding having any of the following:
                1.     Having all of the following:
                       a.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 1,1 µm
                              along one or more linear axis; and
                       b.     Three or four axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring
                              control"; or
                2.     Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control"
                       having any of the following:
                       a.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 1,1 µm
                              along one or more linear axis with a travel length less than 1 m;
                       b.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 1,4 µm
                              along one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 1 m and
                              less than 4 m; or
                       c.     "Unidirectional positioning repeatability" equal to or less (better) than 6,0 µm along
                              one or more linear axis with a travel length equal to or greater than 4 m.
                Note: 2B001.c. does not control grinding machine as follows:
                                   a.    Cylindrical external, internal, and external-internal grinding machines, having all
                                          of the following:
                                          1.      Limited to cylindrical grinding; and
                                          2.      Limited to a maximum workpiece capacity of 150 mm outside diameter or
                                                 length.
                                   b.    Machines designed specifically as jig grinders that do not have a z-axis or a w-
                                          axis, with a "unidirectional positioning repeatability" less (better) than 1,1 µm
                                   c.    Surface grinders.
           d.   Electrical discharge machines (EDM) of the non-wire type which have two or more rotary axes
                which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control";
           e.   Machine tools for removing metals, ceramics or "composites", having all of the following:
                1.     Removing material by means of any of the following:
                       a.     Water or other liquid jets, including those employing abrasive additives;
                       b.     Electron beam; or


                                                                                                                       78
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

                      c.     "Laser" beam; and
               2.     At least two rotary axes having all of the following:
                      a.     Can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control"; and
                      b.     A positioning "accuracy" of less (better) than 0,003°;
        f.     Deep-hole-drilling machines and turning machines modified for deep-hole-drilling, having a
               maximum depth-of-bore capability exceeding 5m.
2B002   Numerically controlled optical finishing machine tools equipped for selective material removal to
        produce non-spherical optical surfaces having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     Finishing the form to less (better) than 1,0 µm;
        b.     Finishing to a roughness less (better) than 100 nm rms.
2B002 continued

        c.     Four or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control"; and
        d.     Using any of the following processes:
               1.     Magnetorheological finishing ('MRF');
               2.     Electrorheological finishing ('ERF');
               3.     'Energetic particle beam finishing';
               4.     'Inflatable membrane tool finishing'; or
               5.     'Fluid jet finishing'.
        Technical Notes:
        For the purposes of 2B002:
                                   1.     'MRF' is a material removal process using an abrasive magnetic fluid whose viscosity is
                                          controlled by a magnetic field.
                                   2.     'ERF' is a removal process using an abrasive fluid whose viscosity is controlled by an electric
                                          field.
                                   3.     'Energetic particle beam finishing' uses Reactive Atom Plasmas (RAP) or ion-beams to
                                          selectively remove material.
                                   4.     'Inflatable membrane tool finishing' is a process that uses a pressurized membrane that deforms
                                          to contact the workpiece over a small area.
                                   5.     'Fluid jet finishing' makes use of a fluid stream for material removal.
2B003   "Numerically controlled" machine tools, specially designed for the shaving, finishing, grinding or
        honing of hardened (Rc=40 or more) spur, helical and double-helical gears having all of the following:
        a.     A pitch diameter exceeding 1 250 mm;
        b.     A face width of 15% of pitch diameter or larger; and
        c.     A finished quality of AGMA 14 or better (equivalent to ISO 1328 class 3).
2B004   Hot "isostatic presses" having all of the following, and specially designed components and accessories
        therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B104 and 2B204.
        a.     A controlled thermal environment within the closed cavity and a chamber cavity with an inside
               diameter of 406 mm or more; and
        b.     Having any of the following:
               1.     A maximum working pressure exceeding 207 MPa;
               2.     A controlled thermal environment exceeding 1 773 K (1 500°C); or
               3.     A facility for hydrocarbon impregnation and removal of resultant gaseous degradation
                      products.
        Technical Note:


                                                                                                                 79
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

        The inside chamber dimension is that of the chamber in which both the working temperature and the
        working pressure are achieved and does not include fixtures. That dimension will be the smaller of
        either the inside diameter of the pressure chamber or the inside diameter of the insulated furnace
        chamber, depending on which of the two chambers is located inside the other.
        N.B.: For specially designed dies, moulds and tooling see 1B003, 9B009 and the Military Goods
              Controls.
2B005   Equipment specially designed for the deposition, processing and in-process control of inorganic
        overlays, coatings and surface modifications, as follows, for substrates specified in column 2, by
        processes shown in column 1 in the Table following 2E003.f., and specially designed automated
        handling, positioning, manipulation and control components therefor:
        a.     Chemical vapour deposition (CVD) production equipment having all of the following:
        N.B.: SEE ALSO 2B105.
               1.     A process modified for one of the following:
                      a.     Pulsating CVD;
2B005 continued

                      b.     Controlled nucleation thermal deposition (CNTD); or
                      c.     Plasma enhanced or plasma assisted CVD; and
               2.     Having any of the following:
                      a.     Incorporating high vacuum (equal to or less than 0,01 Pa) rotating seals; or
                      b.     Incorporating in situ coating thickness control;
        b.     Ion implantation production equipment having beam currents of 5 mA or more;
        c.     Electron beam physical vapour deposition (EB-PVD) production equipment incorporating power
               systems rated for over 80 kW and having any of the following:
               1.     A liquid pool level "laser" control system which regulates precisely the ingots feed rate;
                      or
               2.     A computer controlled rate monitor operating on the principle of photo-luminescence of
                      the ionised atoms in the evaporant stream to control the deposition rate of a coating
                      containing two or more elements;
        d.     Plasma spraying production equipment having any of the following:
               1.     Operating at reduced pressure controlled atmosphere (equal to or less than 10 kPa
                      measured above and within 300 mm of the gun nozzle exit) in a vacuum chamber capable
                      of evacuation down to 0,01 Pa prior to the spraying process; or
               2.     Incorporating in situ coating thickness control;
                                                                                                     2
        e.     Sputter deposition production equipment capable of current densities of 0,1 mA/mm or higher
               at a deposition rate of 15 µm/h or more;
        f.     Cathodic arc deposition production equipment incorporating a grid of electromagnets for steering
               control of the arc spot on the cathode;
        g.     Ion plating production equipment capable of the in situ measurement of any of the following:
               1.     Coating thickness on the substrate and rate control; or
               2.     Optical characteristics.
        Note: 2B005 does not control chemical vapour deposition, cathodic arc, sputter deposition, ion plating
              or ion implantation equipment, specially designed for cutting or machining tools.
2B006   Dimensional inspection or measuring systems, equipment, position feedback units and "electronic
        assemblies", as follows:


                                                                                                                   80
                              CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

           a.     Computer controlled or "numerical controlled" Coordinate Measuring Machines (CMM), having
                  a three dimensional (volumetric) maximum permissible error of length measurement (E0,MPE) at
                  any point within the operating range of the machine (i.e., within the length of axes) equal to or
                  less (better) than (1,7 + L/1 000) µm (L is the measured length in mm), according to ISO 10360-
                  2:2009;
           Technical Note:
           The E0,MPE of the most accurate configuration of the CMM specified by the manufacturer (e.g., best of
           the following: probe, stylus length, motion parameters, environment) and with "all compensations
           available" shall be compared to the 1,7+L/1 000 µm threshold.
           N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B206.
           b.     Linear displacement measuring instruments or systems, linear position feedback units, and
                  "electronic assemblies", as follows:
                  Note: Interferometer and optical-encoder measuring systems containing a "laser" are only
                        specified in 2B006.b.3 and 2B206.c.




2B006.b.          continued

                  1.     'Non-contact type measuring systems' with a "resolution" equal to or less (better) than
                         0,2 µm within 0 to 0,2 mm of the 'measuring range';
                  Technical Notes:
                  For the purposes of 2B006.b.1.:
                                   1.    'non-contact type measuring systems' are designed to measure the distance between
                                          the probe and measured object along a single vector, where the probe or measured
                                          object is in motion.

                                   2.    'measuring range' means the distance between the minimum and maximum working
                                          distance.

                  2.     Linear position feedback units specially designed for machine tools and having an overall
                         "accuracy" less (better) than (800 + (600 x L/1 000)) nm (L equals effective length in
                         mm);
                  3.     Measuring systems having all of the following:
                         a.      Containing a "laser";
                         b.      A "resolution" over their full scale of 0,200 nm or less (better); and
                         c.      Capable of achieving a "measurement uncertainty" equal to or less (better) than
                                 (1,6 + L/2 000) nm (L is the measured length in mm) at any point within a
                                 measuring range, when compensated for the refractive index of air and measured
                                 over a period of 30 seconds at a temperature of 20±0,01°C; or
                  4.     "Electronic assemblies" specially designed to provide feedback capability in systems
                         specified in 2B006.b.3.;
           c.     Rotary position feedback units specially designed for machine tools or angular displacement
                  measuring instruments, having an angular position "accuracy" equal to or less (better) than 0,9
                  second of arc;
                  Note: 2B006.c. does not control optical instruments, such as autocollimators, using collimated
                        light (e.g. "laser" light) to detect angular displacement of a mirror.
           d.     Equipment for measuring surface roughness (including surface defects), by measuring optical
                  scatter with a sensitivity of 0,5 nm or less (better).



                                                                                                                      81
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

               Note: 2B006 includes machine tools, other than those specified in 2B001, that can be used as
                     measuring machines if they meet or exceed the criteria specified for the measuring
                     machine function.
2B007   "Robots" having any of the following characteristics and specially designed controllers and "end-
        effectors" therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B207.
        a.     Not used;
        b.     Specially designed to comply with national safety standards applicable to potentially explosive
               munitions environments;
               Note: 2B007.b. does not control "robots" specially designed for paint-spraying booths.
        c.     Specially designed or rated as radiation-hardened to withstand a total radiation dose greater than
                     3
               5 x 10 Gy (silicon) without operational degradation; or
               Technical Note:
               The term Gy (silicon) refers to the energy in Joules per kilogram absorbed by an unshielded
               silicon sample when exposed to ionising radiation.
        d.     Specially designed to operate at altitudes exceeding 30 000 m.


2B008   'Compound rotary tables' and "tilting spindles", specially designed for machine tools, as follows:
        a.     Not used;
        b.     Not used;
        c.     'Compound rotary tables' having all of the following:
               1.     Designed for machine tools for turning, milling or grinding; and
               2.     Two rotary axes designed to be coordinated simultaneously for “contouring control”;
               Technical Note:
               A 'compound rotary table' is a table allowing the workpiece to rotate and tilt about two non-
               parallel axes
        d.     "Tilting spindles" having all of the following :
               1.     Designed for machine tools for turning, milling or grinding; and
               2.     Designed to be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control".


2B009   Spin-forming machines and flow-forming machines, which, according to the manufacturer's technical
        specification, can be equipped with "numerical control" units or a computer control and having all of
        the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B109 AND 2B209.
        a.     Three or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control"; and
        b.     A roller force more than 60 kN.
        Technical Note:
        For the purpose of 2B009, machines combining the function of spin-forming and flow-forming are
        regarded as flow-forming machines.
2B104   "Isostatic presses", other than those specified in 2B004, having all of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B204.
        a.     Maximum working pressure of 69 MPa or greater;



                                                                                                                    82
                         CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

        b.     Designed to achieve and maintain a controlled thermal environment of 873 K (600°C) or greater;
               and
        c.     Possessing a chamber cavity with an inside diameter of 254 mm or greater.
2B105   Chemical vapour deposition (CVD) furnaces, other than those specified in 2B005.a., designed or
        modified for the densification of carbon-carbon composites.
2B109   Flow-forming machines, other than those specified in 2B009, usable in the "production" of propulsion
        components and equipment (e.g. motor cases and interstages) for "missiles", and specially designed
        components as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B209.
        a.     Flow-forming machines having all of the following:
               1.    Equipped with, or, according to the manufacturer's technical specification, are capable of
                     being equipped with "numerical control" units or computer control; and
               2.    More than two axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control".
        b.     Specially designed components for flow-forming machines specified in 2B009 or 2B109.a.
        Technical Note:
        Machines combining the function of spin-forming and flow-forming are for the purpose of 2B109
        regarded as flow-forming machines.




                                                                                                                  83
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

2B116   Vibration test systems, equipment and components therefor, as follows:
        a.     Vibration test systems employing feedback or closed loop techniques and incorporating a digital
               controller, capable of vibrating a system at an acceleration equal to or greater than 10 g rms
               between 20 Hz and 2 kHz while imparting forces equal to or greater than 50 kN, measured 'bare
               table';
        b.     Digital controllers, combined with specially designed vibration test software, with a 'real-time
               control bandwidth' greater than 5 kHz designed for use with vibration test systems specified in
               2B116.a.;
               Technical Note:
               In 2B116.b., 'real-time control bandwidth' means the maximum rate at which a controller can
               execute complete cycles of sampling, processing data and transmitting control signals.
        c.     Vibration thrusters (shaker units), with or without associated amplifiers, capable of imparting a
               force equal to or greater than 50 kN, measured 'bare table', and usable in vibration test systems
               specified in 2B116.a.;
        d.     Test piece support structures and electronic units designed to combine multiple shaker units in a
               system capable of providing an effective combined force equal to or greater than 50 kN,
               measured 'bare table', and usable in vibration systems specified in 2B116.a.
        Technical Note:
        In 2B116, 'bare table' means a flat table, or surface, with no fixture or fittings.
2B117   Equipment and process controls, other than those specified in 2B004, 2B005.a., 2B104 or 2B105,
        designed or modified for densification and pyrolysis of structural composite rocket nozzles and reentry
        vehicle nose tips.
2B119   Balancing machines and related equipment, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B219.
        a.     Balancing machines having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Not capable of balancing rotors/assemblies having a mass greater than 3 kg;
               2.     Capable of balancing rotors/assemblies at speeds greater than 12 500 rpm;
               3.     Capable of correcting unbalance in two planes or more; and
               4.     Capable of balancing to a residual specific unbalance of 0,2 g mm per kg of rotor mass;
               Note: 2B119.a. does not control balancing machines designed or modified for dental or other
                     medical equipment.
        b.     Indicator heads designed or modified for use with machines specified in 2B119.a.
               Technical Note:
               Indicator heads are sometimes known as balancing instrumentation.
2B120   Motion simulators or rate tables having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     Two or more axes;
        b.     Designed or modified to incorporate slip rings or integrated non-contact devices capable of
               transferring electrical power, signal information, or both; and
        c.     Having any of the following characteristics:
               1.     For any single axis having all of the following:
                      a.      Capable of rates of 400 degrees/s or more, or 30 degrees/s or less; and
                      b.      A rate resolution equal to or less than 6 degrees/s and an accuracy equal to or less
                              than 0,6 degrees/s;
               2.     Having a worst-case rate stability equal to or better (less) than plus or minus 0,05%
                      averaged over 10 degrees or more; or


                                                                                                                     84
                          CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING



2B120 continued

                3.     A positioning "accuracy" equal to or less (better) than 5 arc second.
         Note 1:       2B120 does not control rotary tables designed or modified for machine tools or for
                       medical equipment. For controls on machine tool rotary tables see 2B008.
         Note 2:       Motion simulators or rate tables specified in 2B120 remain controlled whether or not slip
                       rings or integrated non-contact devices are fitted at time of export.
2B121    Positioning tables (equipment capable of precise rotary positioning in any axes), other than those
         specified in 2B120, having all of the following characteristics:
         a.     Two or more axes; and
         b.     A positioning "accuracy" equal to or less (better) than 5 arc second.
         Note: 2B121 does not control rotary tables designed or modified for machine tools or for medical
               equipment. For controls on machine tool rotary tables see 2B008.
2B122    Centrifuges capable of imparting accelerations greater than 100 g and designed or modified to
         incorporate slip rings or integrated non-contact devices capable of transferring electrical power, signal
         information, or both.
         Note: Centrifuges specified in 2B122 remain controlled whether or not slip rings or integrated non-
               contact devices are fitted at time of export.
2B201    Machine tools and any combination thereof, other than those specified in 2B001, as follows, for
         removing or cutting metals, ceramics or "composites", which, according to the manufacturer’s technical
         specification, can be equipped with electronic devices for simultaneous "contouring control" in two or
         more axes:
         Technical Note:
                                          Stated positioning accuracy levels derived under the following procedures from measurements made
                                          according to ISO 230-2:19886 or national equivalents may be used for each machine tool model if
                                          provided to, and accepted by, national authorities instead of individual machine tests. Determination
                                          of stated positioning accuracy:
                                          a.     Select five machines of a model to be evaluated;
                                          b.     Measure the linear axis accuracies according to ISO 230-2:19881;
                                          c.     Determine the accuracy values (A) for each axis of each machine. The method of calculating
                                                        the accuracy value is described in the ISO 230-2:19881 standard;
                                          d.     Determine the average accuracy value of each axis. This average value becomes the stated
                                                 positioning accuracy of each axis for the model (Âx Ây...);
                                          e.     Since item 2B201 refers to each linear axis, there will be as many stated positioning accuracy
                                                 values as there are linear axes;
                                          f.     If any axis of a machine tool not specified in 2B201.a., 2B201.b. or 2B201.c. has a stated
                                                 positioning accuracy of 6 µm or better (less) for grinding machines, and 8 µm or better (less)
                                                 for milling and turning machines, both according to ISO 230-2:19881, then the builder should
                                                 be required to reaffirm the accuracy level once every eighteen months.
         a.     Machine tools for milling, having any of the following characteristics:
                1.     Positioning accuracies with "all compensations available" equal to or less (better) than
                       6 µm according to ISO 230-2:19881 or national equivalents along any linear axis;
                2.     Two or more contouring rotary axes; or

               3.     Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control";
               Note: 2B201.a. does not control milling machines having the following characteristics:
                                          a.     X-axis travel greater than 2 m; and
                                          b.     Overall positioning accuracy on the x-axis more (worse) than 30 µm.
        b.     Machine tools for grinding, having any of the following characteristics:
               1.     Positioning accuracies with "all compensations available" equal to or less (better) than
                      4 µm according to ISO 230-2:19881 or national equivalents along any linear axis;
               2.     Two or more contouring rotary axes; or
               3.     Five or more axes which can be coordinated simultaneously for "contouring control";
               Note: 2B201.b. does not control grinding machines as follows:
                                          a.     Cylindrical external, internal, and external-internal grinding machines having all
                                                 of the following characteristics:
                                                 1.       Limited to a maximum workpiece capacity of 150 mm outside diameter or
                                                        length; and
                                                 2.       Axes limited to x, z and c;
                                          b.     Jig grinders that do not have a z-axis or a w-axis with an overall positioning
                                                 accuracy less (better) than 4 µm according to ISO 230-2:19881 or national
                                                 equivalents.
        c.     Machine tools for turning, that have positioning accuracies with "all compensations available"
               better (less) than 6 μm according to ISO 230-2:19881 along any linear axis (overall positioning)
               for machines capable of machining diameters greater than 35 mm;
               Note: 2B201.c. does not control bar machines (Swissturn), limited to machining only bar feed
                     thru, if maximum bar diameter is equal to or less than 42 mm and there is no capability
                     of mounting chucks. Machines may have drilling and/or milling capabilities for
                     machining parts with diameters less than 42 mm.
        Note 1:       2B201 does not control special purpose machine tools limited to the manufacture of any
                      of the following parts:
                                          a.     Gears;
                                          b.     Crankshafts or camshafts;
                                          c.     Tools or cutters;
                                          d.     Extruder worms.
        Note 2:       A machine tool having at least two of the three turning, milling or grinding capabilities
                      (e.g., a turning machine with milling capability), must be evaluated against each
                      applicable entry 2B201.a., .b. or .c.
        Note 3:       2B201.a.3. and 2B201.b.3. include machines based on a parallel linear kinematic design
                      (e.g., hexapods) that have 5 or more axes none of which is a rotary axis.
2B204   "Isostatic presses", other than those specified in 2B004 or 2B104, and related equipment, as follows:
        a.     "Isostatic presses" having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     Capable of achieving a maximum working pressure of 69 MPa or greater; and
               2.     A chamber cavity with an inside diameter in excess of 152 mm;
        b.     Dies, moulds and controls, specially designed for "isostatic presses" specified in 2B204.a.
        Technical Note:

        In 2B204 the inside chamber dimension is that of the chamber in which both the working temperature
        and the working pressure are achieved and does not include fixtures. That dimension will be the smaller
          of either the inside diameter of the pressure chamber or the inside diameter of the insulated furnace
          chamber, depending on which of the two chambers is located inside the other.

2B206     Dimensional inspection machines, instruments or systems, other than those specified in 2B006, as
          follows:
          a.     Computer controlled or numerically controlled coordinate measuring machines (CMM) having
                 either of the following characteristics:
                 1.     Having only two axes and having a maximum permissible error of length measurement
                        along any axis (one dimensional), identified as any combination of E0x,MPE, E0y,MPE, or
                        E0z,MPE, equal to or less (better) than (1,25 + L/1 000) µm (where L is the measured length
                        in mm) at any point within the operating range of the machine (i.e., within the length of
                        the axis), according to ISO 10360-2:2009; or
                 2.     Three or more axes and having a three dimensional (volumetric) maximum permissible
                        error of length measurement (E0,MPE) equal to or less (better) than (1,7 + L/800) µm
                        (where L is the measured length in mm) at any point within the operating range of the
                        machine (i.e., within the length of the axis), according to ISO 10360-2:2009;
                 Technical Note:
                 The E0,MPE of the most accurate configuration of the CMM specified according to ISO 10360-
                 2:2009 by the manufacturer (e.g., best of the following: probe, stylus, length, motion parameters,
                 environments) and with all compensations available shall be compared to the (1,7 + L/800) µm
                 threshold.
          b.     Systems for simultaneous linear-angular inspection of hemishells, having both of the following
                 characteristics:
                 1.     "Measurement uncertainty" along any linear axis equal to or less (better) than 3,5 µm per
                        5 mm; and
                 2.     "Angular position deviation" equal to or less than 0,02°;
          c.     'Linear displacement' measuring systems having all of the following characteristics:
                 Technical Note:
                 For the purpose of 2B206.c. 'linear displacement' means the change of distance between the
                 measuring probe and the measured object.
                 1.     Containing a "laser"; and
                 2.     Capable of maintaining, for at least 12 hours, at a temperature of ± 1 K (± 1°C); around a
                        standard temperature and standard pressure, all of the following:
                        a.     A "resolution" over their full scale of 0,1 µm or better; and
                        b.     With a "measurement uncertainty" equal to or better (less) than (0,2 + L/2 000) µm
                               (L is the measured length in mm).
                 Note: 2B206.c. does not control measuring interferometer systems, without closed or open loop
                       feedback, containing a laser to measure slide movement errors of machine tools,
                       dimensional inspection machines, or similar equipment.
          d.     Linear variable differential transformer (LVDT) systems having both of the following
                 characteristics:
                 Technical Note:
                         For the purpose of 2B206.d. 'linear displacement' means the change of distance between
                 the measuring probe and the measured object.
                 1.     Having any of the following:

                      a.     "Linearity" equal to or less (better) than 0,1% measured from 0 to the full operating
                             range, for LVDTs with an operating range up to 5 mm; or
                      b.     "Linearity" equal to or less (better) than 0,1% measured from 0 to 5 mm for
                             LVDTs with an operating range greater than 5 mm; and
               2.     Drift equal to or better (less) than 0,1% per day at a standard ambient test room
                      temperature ±1 K (± 1°C).


2B206 continued

        Note 1:       Machine tools that can be used as measuring machines are controlled if they meet or
                      exceed the criteria specified for the machine tool function or the measuring machine
                      function.
        Note 2:       A machine specified in 2B206 is controlled if it exceeds the control threshold anywhere
                      within its operating range.
        Technical Notes:
        All parameters of measurement values in 2B206 represent plus/minus i.e., not total band.
2B207   "Robots", "end-effectors" and control units, other than those specified in 2B007, as follows:
        a.     "Robots" or "end-effectors" specially designed to comply with national safety standards
               applicable to handling high explosives (for example, meeting electrical code ratings for high
               explosives);
        b.     Control units specially designed for any of the "robots" or "end-effectors" specified in 2B207.a.
2B209   Flow forming machines, spin forming machines capable of flow forming functions, other than those
        specified in 2B009 or 2B109, and mandrels, as follows:
        a.     Machines having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     Three or more rollers (active or guiding); and
               2.     Which, according to the manufacturer's technical specification, can be equipped with
                      "numerical control" units or a computer control;
        b.     Rotor-forming mandrels designed to form cylindrical rotors of inside diameter between 75 mm
               and 400 mm.
        Note: 2B209.a. includes machines which have only a single roller designed to deform metal plus two
              auxiliary rollers which support the mandrel, but do not participate directly in the deformation
              process.
2B219   Centrifugal multiplane balancing machines, fixed or portable, horizontal or vertical, as follows:
        a.     Centrifugal balancing machines designed for balancing flexible rotors having a length of 600 mm
               or more and having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Swing or journal diameter greater than 75 mm;
               2.     Mass capability of from 0,9 to 23 kg; and
               3.     Capable of balancing speed of revolution greater than 5 000 r.p.m.;
        b.     Centrifugal balancing machines designed for balancing hollow cylindrical rotor components and
               having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Journal diameter greater than 75 mm;
               2.     Mass capability of from 0,9 to 23 kg;
               3.     A minimum achievable residual specific unbalance equal to or less than 10 g mm/kg per
                      plane; and
               4.     Belt drive type.


                                                                                                                     88
                         CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

2B225   Remote manipulators that can be used to provide remote actions in radiochemical separation operations
        or hot cells, having either of the following characteristics:
        a.     A capability of penetrating 0,6 m or more of hot cell wall (through-the-wall operation); or
        b.     A capability of bridging over the top of a hot cell wall with a thickness of 0,6 m or more
               (over-the-wall operation).
        Technical Note:
        Remote manipulators provide translation of human operator actions to a remote operating arm and
        terminal fixture. They may be of 'master/slave' type or operated by joystick or keypad.
2B226   Controlled atmosphere (vacuum or inert gas) induction furnaces, other than those specified in 9B001
        and 3B001, and power supplies therefor, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 3B001 and 9B001.
        a.     Furnaces having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Capable of operation above 1 123 K (850°C);
               2.     Induction coils 600 mm or less in diameter; and
               3.     Designed for power inputs of 5 kW or more;
               Note: 2B226.a. does not control furnaces designed for the processing of semiconductor wafers.
        b.     Power supplies, with a specified power output of 5 kW or more, specially designed for furnaces
               specified in 2B226.a.
2B227   Vacuum or other controlled atmosphere metallurgical melting and casting furnaces and related
        equipment as follows:
        a.     Arc remelt furnaces, arc melt furnaces and arc melt and casting furnaces having both of the
               following characteristics:
               1.     Consumable electrode capacities between 1 000 cm3 and 20 000 cm3; and
               2.     Capable of operating with melting temperatures above 1 973 K (1 700oC);
        b.     Electron beam melting furnaces, plasma atomization furnaces and plasma melting furnaces,
               having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     A power of 50 kW or greater; and
               2.     Capable of operating with melting temperatures above 1 473 K (1 200oC);
        c.     Computer control and monitoring systems specially configured for any of the furnaces specified
               in 2B227.a. or 2B227.b.;
        d.     Plasma torches specially designed for furnaces specified in 2B227.b. having both of the
               following characteristics:
               1.     Operating at a power greater than 50 kW; and
               2.     Capable of operating above 1 473 K (1 200 oC);
        e.     Electron beam guns specially designed for the furnaces specified in 2B227.b. operating at a
               power greater than 50 kW.
2B228   Rotor fabrication or assembly equipment, rotor straightening equipment, bellows-forming mandrels and
        dies, as follows:
        a.     Rotor assembly equipment for assembly of gas centrifuge rotor tube sections, baffles, and end
               caps;
        Note: 2B228.a. includes precision mandrels, clamps, and shrink fit machines.
        b.     Rotor straightening equipment for alignment of gas centrifuge rotor tube sections to a common
               axis;
               Technical Note:
               In 2B228.b. such equipment normally consists of precision measuring probes linked to a
               computer that subsequently controls the action of, for example, pneumatic rams used for aligning
               the rotor tube sections.
        c.     Bellows-forming mandrels and dies for producing single-convolution bellows.
               Technical Note:
                                   In 2B228.c. the bellows have all of the following characteristics:
                                   1.     Inside diameter between 75 mm and 400 mm;
                                   2.     Length equal to or greater than 12,7 mm;
                                   3.     Single convolution depth greater than 2 mm; and
                                   4.     Made of high-strength aluminium alloys, maraging steel or high strength "fibrous or
                                          filamentary materials".


2B230   All types of 'pressure transducers' capable of measuring absolute pressures and having all of the
        following:
        a.     Pressure sensing elements made of or protected by aluminium, aluminium alloy, aluminum oxide
               (alumina or sapphire), nickel, nickel alloy with more than 60% nickel by weight, or fully
               fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers;
        b.     Seals, if any, essential for sealing the pressure sensing element, and in direct contact with the
               process medium, made of or protected by aluminium, aluminium alloy, aluminum oxide
               (alumina or sapphire), nickel, nickel alloy with more than 60% nickel by weight, or fully
               fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers; and
        c.     Having either of the following characteristics:
               1.     A full scale of less than 13 kPa and an 'accuracy' of better than 1% of full-scale; or
               2.     A full scale of 13 kPa or greater and an 'accuracy' of better than 130 Pa when measured
                      at 13 kPa.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    In 2B230 'pressure transducer' means a device that converts a pressure measurement into a
                                          signal.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 2B230, 'accuracy' includes non-linearity, hysteresis and repeatability at
                                          ambient temperature.
2B231   Vacuum pumps having all of the following characteristics:
        a.     Input throat size equal to or greater than 380 mm;
        b.     Pumping speed equal to or greater than 15 m 3/s; and
        c.     Capable of producing an ultimate vacuum better than 13 mPa.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    The pumping speed is determined at the measurement point with nitrogen gas or air.
                                   2.    The ultimate vacuum is determined at the input of the pump with the input of the pump blocked
                                          off.
2B232   High-velocity gun systems (propellant, gas, coil, electromagnetic, and electrothermal types, and other
        advanced systems) capable of accelerating projectiles to 1,5 km/s or greater.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILTARY GOODS CONTROLS.
2B233   Bellows-sealed scroll-type compressors and bellows-sealed scroll-type vacuum pumps having all of the
        following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B350.i.



                                                                                                                   90
               CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

a.   Capable of an inlet volume flow rate of 50 m3/h or greater;
b.   Capable of a pressure ratio of 2:1 or greater; and
c.   Having all surfaces that come in contact with the process gas made from any of the following
     materials:
     1.     Aluminium or aluminium alloy;
     2.     Aluminium oxide;
     3.     Stainless steel;
     4.     Nickel or nickel alloy;
     5.     Phosphor bronze; or
     6.     Fluoropolymers.




                                                                                                    91
                        CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

2B350   Chemical manufacturing facilities, equipment and components, as follows:
        a.    Reaction vessels or reactors, with or without agitators, with total internal (geometric) volume
              greater than 0,1 m3 (100 litres) and less than 20 m3 (20 000 litres), where all surfaces that come
              in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the
              following materials:
              N.B.   For prefabricated repair assemblies, see 2B350.k.
              1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
              2.     Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                     weight);
              3.     Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coating or glass lining);
              4.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
              5.     Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
              6.     Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
              7.     Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys'; or
              8.     Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
        b.    Agitators designed for use in reaction vessels or reactors specified in 2B350.a.; and impellers,
              blades or shafts designed for such agitators, where all surfaces of the agitator that come in direct
              contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the following
              materials:
              1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
              2.     Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                     weight);
              3.     Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coatings or glass lining);
              4.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
              5.     Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
              6.     Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
              7.     Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys'; or
              8.     Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
        c.    Storage tanks, containers or receivers with a total internal (geometric) volume greater than 0,1
              m3 (100 litres) where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed
              or contained are made from any of the following materials:
              N.B.   For prefabricated repair assemblies, see 2B350.k.
              1.    'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
              2.    Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                    weight);
              3.    Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coatings or glass lining);
              4.    Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
              5.    Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
              6.    Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
              7.    Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys'; or
              8.    Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
        d.    Heat exchangers or condensers with a heat transfer surface area greater than 0,15 m2, and less
              than 20 m2; and tubes, plates, coils or blocks (cores) designed for such heat exchangers or
              condensers, where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed
              are made from any of the following materials:
              1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
              2.     Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                     weight);
              3.     Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coatings or glass lining);
              4.     Graphite or 'carbon graphite';
              5.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
              6.     Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
              7.     Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
              8.     Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys';


                                                                                                                     92
                          CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

              9.     Silicon carbide;
              10.    Titanium carbide; or
2B350 continued

              11.    Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
        e.    Distillation or absorption columns of internal diameter greater than 0,1 m; and liquid distributors,
              vapour distributors or liquid collectors designed for such distillation or absorption columns,
              where all surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed are made
              from any of the following materials:
              1.    'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
              2.    Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                    weight);
              3.    Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coatings or glass lining);
              4.    Graphite or 'carbon graphite';
              5.    Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
              6.    Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
              7.    Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
              8.    Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys'; or
              9.    Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
        f.    Remotely operated filling equipment in which all surfaces that come in direct contact with the
              chemical(s) being processed are made from any of the following materials:
              1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight; or
              2.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
        g.    Valves and components, as follows:
              1.     Valves, having both of the following:
                     a.     A 'nominal size' greater than DN 10 or NPS 3/8; and
                     b.     All surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being produced,
                            processed, or contained are made from 'corrosion resistant materials';
              2.     Valves, other than those specified in 2B350.g.1., having all of the following;
                     a.     A 'nominal size' equal to or greater than DN 25 or NPS 1 and equal to or less than
                            DN 100 or NPS 4;
                     b.     Casings (valve bodies) or preformed casing liners;
                     c.     A closure element designed to be interchangeable; and
                     d.     All surfaces of the casing (valve body) or preformed case liner that come in direct
                            contact with the chemical(s) being produced, processed, or contained are made
                            from 'corrosion resistant materials';
              3.     Components, designed for valves specified in 2B350.g.1. or 2B350.g.2., in which all
                     surfaces that come in direct contact with the chemical(s) being produced, processed, or
                     contained are made from 'corrosion resistant materials', as follows:
                     a.     Casings (valve bodies);
                     b.     Preformed casing liners;
              Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purposes of 2B350.g., 'corrosion resistant materials' means any of the following
                                   materials:
                                   a.     Nickel or alloys with more than 40% nickel by weight;
                                   b.     Alloys with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
                                   c.     Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine
                                          by weight);
                                   d.     Glass or glass-lined (including vitrified or enamelled coating);

                                   e.     Tantalum or tantalum alloys;
                                   f.     Titanium or titanium alloys;
                                   g.     Zirconium or zirconium alloys;
                                   h.     Niobium (columbium) or niobium alloys; or
                                   i.     Ceramic materials as follows:

                                          1.     Silicon carbide with a purity of 80% or more by weight;
                                          2.     Aluminium oxide (alumina) with a purity of 99,9% or more by weight;
                                          3.     Zirconium oxide (zirconia).
                            2.     The 'nominal size' is defined as the smaller of the inlet and outlet diameters.
                            3.     Nominal sizes (DN) of valves are in accordance with ISO 6708:1995. Nominal Pipe Sizes
                                   (NPS) are in accordance with ASME B36.10 or B36.19 or national equivalents.
        h.   Multi-walled piping incorporating a leak detection port, in which all surfaces that come in direct
             contact with the chemical(s) being processed or contained are made from any of the following
             materials:
             1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
             2.     Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                    weight);
             3.     Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coatings or glass lining);
             4.     Graphite or 'carbon graphite';
             5.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
             6.     Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
             7.     Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
             8.     Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys'; or
             9.     Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
        i.   Multiple-seal and seal-less pumps, with manufacturer's specified maximum flow-rate greater
             than 0,6 m3/hour, or vacuum pumps with manufacturer's specified maximum flow-rate greater
             than 5 m3/hour (under standard temperature (273 K (0oC)) and pressure (101,3 kPa) conditions),
             other than those specified in 2B233; and casings (pump bodies), preformed casing liners,
             impellers, rotors or jet pump nozzles designed for such pumps, in which all surfaces that come
             in direct contact with the chemical(s) being processed are made from any of the following
             materials:
             1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
             2.     Ceramics;
             3.     Ferrosilicon (high silicon iron alloys);
             4.     Fluoropolymers (polymeric or elastomeric materials with more than 35% fluorine by
                    weight);
             5.     Glass (including vitrified or enamelled coatings or glass lining);
             6.     Graphite or 'carbon graphite';
             7.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
             8.     Tantalum or tantalum 'alloys';
             9.     Titanium or titanium 'alloys';
             10.    Zirconium or zirconium 'alloys'; or
             11.    Niobium (columbium) or niobium 'alloys';
             Technical Note:
             In 2B350.i., the term seal refers to only those seals that come into direct contact with the
             chemical(s) being processed (or are designed to), and provide a sealing function where a rotary
             or reciprocating drive shaft passes through a pump body.
        j.   Incinerators designed to destroy chemicals specified in entry 1C350, having specially designed
             waste supply systems, special handling facilities and an average combustion chamber
             temperature greater than 1 273 K (1 000oC), in which all surfaces in the waste supply system that
             come into direct contact with the waste products are made from or lined with any of the following
             materials:
             1.     'Alloys' with more than 25% nickel and 20% chromium by weight;
             2.     Ceramics; or


                                                                                                                  94
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

               3.     Nickel or 'alloys' with more than 40% nickel by weight;
        k.     Prefabricated repair assemblies having metallic surfaces that come in direct contact with the
               chemical(s) being processed which are made from tantalum or tantalum alloys as follows, and
               specially designed components therefor:
               1.     Designed for mechanical attachment to glass-lined reaction vessels or reactors specified
                      in 2B350.a.; or
2B350 continued

               2.     Designed for mechanical attachment to glass-lined storage tanks, containers or receivers
                      specified in 2B350.c.
        Note: For the purposes of 2B350, the materials used for gaskets, packing, seals, screws, washers or
              other materials performing a sealing function do not determine the status of control, provided
              that such components are designed to be interchangeable.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.     'Carbon graphite' is a composition consisting of amorphous carbon and graphite, in which the
                                          graphite content is eight percent or more by weight.
                                   2.     For the listed materials in the above entries, the term 'alloy' when not accompanied by a specific
                                          elemental concentration is understood as identifying those alloys where the identified metal is
                                          present in a higher percentage by weight than any other element.
2B351   Toxic gas monitors and monitoring systems and their dedicated detecting components, other than those
        specified in 1A004, as follows; and detectors; sensor devices; and replaceable sensor cartridges therefor:
        a.     Designed for continuous operation and usable for the detection of chemical warfare agents or
               chemicals specified in 1C350, at concentrations of less than 0,3 mg/m3; or
        b.     Designed for the detection of cholinesterase-inhibiting activity.
2B352   Biological manufacturing and handling equipment, as follows:
        a.     Containment facilities and related equipment as follows:
               1.     Complete containment facilities that meet the criteria for P3 or P4 (BL3, BL4, L3, L4)
                      containment as specified in the WHO Laboratory Biosafety Manual (3 rd edition, Geneva,
                      2004);
               2.     Equipment designed for fixed installation in containment facilities specified in 2B352.a.,
                      as follows:
                      a.     Double-door pass-through decontamination autoclaves;
                      b.     Breathing air suit decontamination showers;
                      c.     Mechanical-seal or inflatable-seal walkthrough doors;
        b.     Fermenters and components as follows:
               1.     Fermenters capable of cultivation of "microorganisms" or of live cells for the production
                      of viruses or toxins, without the propagation of aerosols, having a total internal volume
                      of 20 litres or more;
               2.     Components designed for fermenters specified in 2B352.b.1. as follows:
                      a.     Cultivation chambers designed to be sterilised or disinfected in situ;
                      b.     Cultivation chamber holding devices;
                      c.     Process control units capable of simultaneously monitoring and controlling two or
                             more fermentation system parameters (e.g., temperature, pH, nutrients, agitation,
                             dissolved oxygen, air flow, foam control);
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purposes of 2B352.b. fermenters include bioreactors, single-use (disposable)
                                          bioreactors, chemostats and continuous-flow systems.
                                   2.    Cultivation chamber holding devices include single-use cultivation chambers with rigid
                                          walls.


                                                                                                                     95
                            CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

         c.     Centrifugal separators, capable of continuous separation without the propagation of aerosols,
                having all of the following characteristics:
                1.     Flow rate exceeding 100 litres per hour;
                2.     Components of polished stainless steel or titanium;
                3.     One or more sealing joints within the steam containment area; and
                4.     Capable of in-situ steam sterilisation in a closed state;
              Technical Note:
              Centrifugal separators include decanters.
2B352 continued

         d.     Cross (tangential) flow filtration equipment and components as follows:
                1.     Cross (tangential) flow filtration equipment capable of separation of "microorganisms",
                       viruses, toxins or cell cultures having all of the following characteristics:
                       a.     A total filtration area equal to or greater than 1 m2; and
                       b.     Having any of the following characteristics:
                              1.     Capable of being sterilised or disinfected in-situ; or
                              2.     Using disposable or single-use filtration components;
                              Technical Note:
                              In 2B352.d.1.b. sterilised denotes the elimination of all viable microbes from the
                              equipment through the use of either physical (e.g. steam) or chemical agents.
                              Disinfected denotes the destruction of potential microbial infectivity in the
                              equipment through the use of chemical agents with a germicidal effect.
                              Disinfection and sterilisation are distinct from sanitisation, the latter referring to
                              cleaning procedures designed to lower the microbial content of equipment without
                              necessarily achieving elimination of all microbial infectivity or viability.
                Note: 2B352.d. does not control reverse osmosis and hemodialysis equipment, as specified by
                      the manufacturer.
                2.     Cross (tangential) flow filtration components (e.g. modules, elements, cassettes,
                       cartridges, units or plates) with filtration area equal to or greater than 0,2 m2 for each
                       component and designed for use in cross (tangential) flow filtration equipment specified
                       in 2B352.d.;
         e.     Steam, gas or vapour sterilisable freeze-drying equipment with a condenser capacity of 10 kg of
                ice or more in 24 hours and less than 1 000 kg of ice in 24 hours;
         f.     Protective and containment equipment, as follows:
                1.     Protective full or half suits, or hoods dependent upon a tethered external air supply and
                       operating under positive pressure;
                       Note: 2B352.f.1. does not control suits designed to be worn with self-contained
                             breathing apparatus.
                2.     Biocontainment chambers, isolators, or biological safety cabinets having all of the
                       following characteristics, for normal operation:
                       a.     Fully enclosed workspace where the operator is separated from the work by a
                              physical barrier;
                       b.     Able to operate at negative pressure;
                       c.     Means to safely manipulate items in the workspace;
                       d.     Supply and exhaust air to and from the workspace is HEPA filtered;
                       Note 1:       2B352.f.2. includes Class III biosafety cabinets, as described in the latest
                                     edition of the WHO Laboratory Biosafety Manual or constructed in
                                     accordance with national standards, regulations or guidance.




                                                                                                                       96
                            CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

                       Note 2:        2B352.f.2. does not include isolators specially designed for barrier nursing
                                      or transportation of infected patients.
        g.      Aerosol inhalation equipment designed for aerosol challenge testing with "microorganisms",
                viruses or "toxins" as follows:
                1.     Whole-body exposure chambers having a capacity of 1 m3 or more;
                2.     Nose-only exposure apparatus utilising directed aerosol flow and having capacity for
                       exposure of any of the following:
                       a.     12 or more rodents; or
                       b.     2 or more animals other than rodents;


2B352 continued

                3.     Closed animal restraint tubes designed for use with nose-only exposure apparatus
                       utilising directed aerosol flow;
        h.      Spray drying equipment capable of drying toxins or pathogenic "microorganisms" having all of
                the following:
                1.     A water evaporation capacity of ≥ 0,4 kg/h and ≤ 400 kg/h;
                2.     The ability to generate a typical mean product particle size of ≤10 µm with existing
                       fittings or by minimal modification of the spray-dryer with atomization nozzles enabling
                       generation of the required particle size; and
                3.     Capable of being sterilised or disinfected in situ;
        i.      Nucleic acid assemblers and synthesisers, which are partly or entirely automated, and designed
                to generate continuous nucleic acids greater than 1,5 kilobases in length with error rates less than
                5% in a single run.

2C      Materials

2D      Software

2D001   "Software", other than that specified in 2D002, as follows:

        a.      "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "production" of equipment
                specified in 2A001 or 2B001
        b.      "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of equipment specified in 2A001.c., 2B001 or 2B003 to 2B009.
        Note: 2D001 does not control part programming "software" that generates "numerical control" codes
              for machining various parts.
2D002   "Software" for electronic devices, even when residing in an electronic device or system, enabling such
        devices or systems to function as a "numerical control" unit, capable of co-ordinating simultaneously
        more than four axes for "contouring control".
        Note 1:        2D002 does not control "software" specially designed or modified for the operation of
                       items not specified in Category 2.
        Note 2:        2D002 does not control "software" for items specified in 2B002. See 2D001 and 2D003
                       for "software" for items specified in 2B002.
        Note 3:        2D002 does not control "software" that is exported with, and the minimum necessary for
                       the operation of, items not specified in Category 2.




                                                                                                                       97
                           CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

2D003   "Software", designed or modified for the operation of equipment specified in 2B002, that converts
        optical design, workpiece measurements and material removal functions into "numerical control"
        commands to achieve the desired workpiece form.
2D101   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of equipment specified in 2B104, 2B105,
        2B109, 2B116, 2B117 or 2B119 to 2B122.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9D004.
2D201   "Software" specially designed for the "use" of equipment specified in 2B204, 2B206, 2B207, 2B209, 2B219 or 2B227.
2D202   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment
        specified in 2B201.
        Note: 2D202 does not control part programming "software" that generates "numerical control"
              command codes but does not allow direct use of equipment for machining various parts.
2D351   "Software", other than that specified in 1D003, specially designed for "use" of equipment specified in
        2B351.

2E      Technology

2E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of equipment or
        "software" specified in 2A, 2B or 2D.
        Note: 2E001 includes "technology" for the integration of probe systems into coordinate measurement
              machines specified in 2B006.a.
2E002   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of equipment specified
        in 2A or 2B.
2E003   Other "technology", as follows:
        a.     Not used;
        b.     "Technology" for metal-working manufacturing processes, as follows:
               1.     "Technology" for the design of tools, dies or fixtures specially designed for any of the
                      following processes:
                      a.     "Superplastic forming";
                      b.     "Diffusion bonding"; or
                      c.     'Direct-acting hydraulic pressing';
               2.     Technical data consisting of process methods or parameters as listed below used to
                      control:
                      a.     "Superplastic forming" of aluminium alloys, titanium alloys or "superalloys":
                             1.     Surface preparation;
                             2.     Strain rate;
                             3.     Temperature;
                             4.     Pressure;
                      b.     "Diffusion bonding" of "superalloys" or titanium alloys:
                             1.     Surface preparation;
                             2.     Temperature;
                             3.     Pressure;
                      c.     'Direct-acting hydraulic pressing'of aluminium alloys or titanium alloys:
                             1.     Pressure;
                             2.     Cycle time;
                      d.     'Hot isostatic densification' of titanium alloys, aluminium alloys or "superalloys":


                                                                                                                    98
                 CATEGORY 2 - MATERIALS PROCESSING

                   1.    Temperature;
                   2.    Pressure;
                   3.    Cycle time;
           Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Direct-acting hydraulic pressing' is a deformation process which uses a fluid-
                                          filled flexible bladder in direct contact with the workpiece.
                                   2.    'Hot isostatic densification' is a process of pressurising a casting at temperatures
                                          exceeding 375 K (102°C) in a closed cavity through various media (gas, liquid,
                                          solid particles, etc.) to create equal force in all directions to reduce or eliminate
                                          internal voids in the casting.
       c.   "Technology" for the "development" or "production" of hydraulic stretch-forming machines and
       dies therefor, for the manufacture of airframe structures;
       d.   Not used;
       e.   "Technology" for the "development" of integration "software" for incorporation of expert
       systems for advanced decision support of shop floor operations into "numerical control" units;



         f.    "Technology" for the application of inorganic overlay coatings or inorganic surface modification
               coatings (specified in column 3 of the following table) to non-electronic substrates (specified in
               column 2 of the following table), by processes specified in column 1 of the following table and
               defined in the Technical Note.
               Note: The table and Technical Note appear after entry 2E301.
                      N.B.   This table should be read to specify the "technology" for a particular Coating
                             Process only when the Resultant Coating in column 3 is in a paragraph directly
                             across from the relevant Substrate under column 2. For example, Chemical
                             Vapour Deposition (CVD) coating process technical data are included for the
                             application of silicides to carbon-carbon, ceramic and metal "matrix"
                             "composites" substrates, but are not included for the application of silicides to
                             'cemented tungsten carbide' (16), 'silicon carbide' (18) substrates. In the second
                             case, the resultant coating is not listed in the paragraph under column 3 directly
                             across from the paragraph under column 2 listing 'cemented tungsten carbide'
                             (16), 'silicon carbide' (18).
2E101    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment or "software"
         specified in 2B004, 2B009, 2B104, 2B109, 2B116, 2B119 to 2B122 or 2D101.
2E201    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment or "software"
         specified in 2A225, 2A226, 2B001, 2B006, 2B007.b., 2B007.c., 2B008, 2B009, 2B201, 2B204, 2B206,
         2B207, 2B209, 2B225 to 2B233, 2D201 or 2D202.
2E301    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of goods specified in 2B350 to
         2B352.

CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

3A001   Electronic items as follows:
        a.     General purpose integrated circuits, as follows:
               Note: Integrated circuits include the following types:
                                          –      "Monolithic integrated circuits";
                                          –      "Hybrid integrated circuits";
                                          –      "Multichip integrated circuits";
                                          –      "Film type integrated circuits", including silicon-on-sapphire integrated
                                                 circuits;
                                          –      "Optical integrated circuits";
                                          –      "Three dimensional integrated circuits";
                                          –      "Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits" ("MMICs").
               1.    Integrated circuits designed or rated as radiation hardened to withstand any of the
                     following:
                      a.     A total dose of 5 x 103 Gy (silicon) or higher;
                      b.     A dose rate upset of 5 x 106 Gy (silicon)/s or higher; or
                      c.     A fluence (integrated flux) of neutrons (1 MeV equivalent) of 5 x 10 13 n/cm2 or
                             higher on silicon, or its equivalent for other materials;
                             Note: 3A001.a.1.c. does not control Metal Insulator Semiconductors (MIS).
               2.     "Microprocessor microcircuits", "microcomputer microcircuits", microcontroller
                      microcircuits, storage integrated circuits manufactured from a compound semiconductor,
                      analogue-to-digital converters, integrated circuits that contain analogue-to-digital
                      converters and store or process the digitised data, digital-to-analogue converters,
                      electro-optical or "optical integrated circuits" designed for "signal processing", field
                      programmable logic devices, custom integrated circuits for which either the function is
                      unknown or the control status of the equipment in which the integrated circuit will be
                      used is unknown, Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) processors, Static Random-Access
                      Memories (SRAMs), or 'non-volatile memories', having any of the following:
                      a.     Rated for operation at an ambient temperature above 398 K (125°C);
                      b.     Rated for operation at an ambient temperature below 218 K (-55°C); or
                      c.     Rated for operation over the entire ambient temperature range from 218 K (-55°C)
                             to 398 K (125°C);



                                                                                                                  108
                             CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                 Note: 3A001.a.2. does not control integrated circuits designed for civil automobiles or
                       railway train applications.

                 Technical Note:
                 'Non-volatile memories' are memories with data retention over a period of time after a
                 power shutdown.
              3.    "Microprocessor microcircuits", "microcomputer microcircuits" and microcontroller
                     microcircuits, manufactured from a compound semiconductor and operating at a clock
                     frequency exceeding 40 MHz;
                     Note: 3A001.a.3. includes digital signal processors, digital array processors and digital
                            coprocessors.
              4.    Not used;
              5.    Analogue-to-Digital Converter (ADC) and Digital-to-Analogue Converter (DAC)
                 integrated circuits, as follows:
                     a.     ADCs having any of the following:
                            N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A101
                            1.     A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 10 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 1,3 Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS);

                            2.     A resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 600 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS);

                            3.     A resolution of 12 bit or more, but less than 14 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 400 MSPS;

                            4.     A resolution of 14 bit or more, but less than 16 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 250 MSPS; or

                            5.     A resolution of 16 bit or more with a "sample rate" greater than 65 MSPS;

                     N.B.   For integrated circuits that contain analogue-to-digital converters and store or
                            process the digitized data, see 3A001.a.14.
                     Technical Notes:
                                   1.    A resolution of n bit corresponds to a quantisation of 2n levels.
                                   2.    The resolution of the ADC is the number of bits of the digital output that represents
                                          the measured analogue input. Effective Number of Bits (ENOB) is not used to
                                          determine the resolution of the ADC.
                                   3.    For "multiple channel ADCs", the "sample rate" is not aggregated and the
                                          "sample rate" is the maximum rate of any single channel.
                                   4.    For "interleaved ADCs" or for "multiple channel ADCs" that are specified to have
                                          an interleaved mode of operation, the "sample rates" are aggregated and the
                                          "sample rate" is the maximum combined total rate of all of the interleaved
                                          channels.
                     b.    Digital-to-Analogue Converters (DAC) having any of the following:
                            1.     A resolution of 10 bit or more but less than 12 bit, with an 'adjusted update
                                   rate' exceeding 3 500 MSPS; or
                            2.     A resolution of 12 bit or more and having any of the following:
                                   a.   An 'adjusted update rate' exceeding 1 250 MSPS but not exceeding 3
                                          500 MSPS, and having any of the following:

                                          1.   A settling time less than 9 ns to arrive at or within 0,024% of full
                                          scale from a full scale step; or

                                          2.   A 'Spurious Free Dynamic Range' (SFDR) greater than 68 dBc
                                                 (carrier) when synthesising a full scale analogue signal of 100
                                                 MHz or the highest full scale analogue signal frequency specified
                                                 below 100 MHz; or
                                   b.   An 'adjusted update rate' exceeding 3 500 MSPS;

                     Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Spurious Free Dynamic Range' (SFDR) is defined as the ratio of the RMS value
                                          of the carrier frequency (maximum signal component) at the input of the DAC to
                                          the RMS value of the next largest noise or harmonic distortion component at its
                                          output.
                                   2.    SFDR is determined directly from the specification table or from the
                                          characterisation plots of SFDR versus frequency.
                                   3     A signal is defined to be full scale when its amplitude is greater than -3 dBfs (full
                                          scale).
                                   4.    'Adjusted update rate' for DACs:
                                          a.      For conventional (non-interpolating) DACs, the 'adjusted update rate' is
                                                 the rate at which the digital signal is converted to an analogue signal and
                                                 the output analogue values are changed by the DAC. For DACs where the
                                                 interpolation mode may be bypassed (interpolation factor of one), the DAC
                                                 should be considered as a conventional (non-interpolating) DAC.
                                          b.      For interpolating DACs (oversampling DACs), the 'adjusted update rate'
                                                 is defined as the DAC update rate divided by the smallest interpolating
                                                 factor. For interpolating DACs, the 'adjusted update rate' may be referred
                                                 to by different terms including:
                                                 - input data rate
                                                 - input word rate
                                                 - input sample rate
                                                 - maximum total input bus rate
                                                 - maximum DAC clock rate for DAC clock input.
              6.    Electro-optical and "optical integrated circuits", designed for "signal processing" and
                     having all of the following:
                     a.     One or more than one internal "laser" diode;
                     b.     One or more than one internal light detecting element; and
                     c.     Optical waveguides;
              7.    Field programmable logic devices having any of the following:
                     a.     A maximum number of single-ended digital input/outputs of greater than 700; or
                     b.     An 'aggregate one-way peak serial transceiver data rate' of 500 Gb/s or greater;
                     Note: 3A001.a.7. includes:
                                                 –      Complex Programmable Logic Devices (CPLDs)
                                                 –      Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs)
                                                 –      Field Programmable Logic Arrays (FPLAs)
                                                 –      Field Programmable Interconnects (FPICs)
                     N.B.   For integrated circuits having field programmable logic devices that are
                            combined with an analogue-to-digital converter, see 3A001.a.14.
                     Technical Notes:

                                          1.     Maximum number of digital input/outputs in 3A001.a.7.a. is also referred to as the
                                                 maximum user input/outputs or maximum available input/outputs, whether the
                                                 integrated circuit is packaged or bare die.
                                          2.     'Aggregate one-way peak serial transceiver data rate' is the product of the peak
                                                 serial one-way transceiver data rate times the number of transceivers on the
                                                 FPGA.
              8.    Not used;
              9.    Neural network integrated circuits;
              10.   Custom integrated circuits for which the function is unknown, or the control status of the
                     equipment in which the integrated circuits will be used is unknown to the manufacturer,
                     having any of the following:
                     a.     More than 1 500 terminals;
                     b.     A typical "basic gate propagation delay time" of less than 0,02 ns; or
                     c.     An operating frequency exceeding 3 GHz;
              11.   Digital integrated circuits, other than those described in 3A001.a.3. to 3A001.a.10. and
                     3A001.a.12., based upon any compound semiconductor and having any of the following:
                     a.     An equivalent gate count of more than 3 000 (2 input gates); or
                     b.     A toggle frequency exceeding 1,2 GHz;
              12.   Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) processors having a rated execution time for an N-point
                     complex FFT of less than (N log2 N) /20 480 ms, where N is the number of points;
                     Technical Note:
                     When N is equal to 1 024 points, the formula in 3A001.a.12. gives an execution time of
                     500 µs.
              13.   Direct Digital Synthesizer (DDS) integrated circuits having any of the following:
                     a.     A Digital-to-Analogue Converter (DAC) clock frequency of 3,5 GHz or more and
                            a DAC resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit; or
                     b.     A DAC clock frequency of 1,25 GHz or more and a DAC resolution of 12 bit or
                            more;
                     Technical Note:
                     The DAC clock frequency may be specified as the master clock frequency or the input
                     clock frequency.


              14.   Integrated circuits that perform or are programmable to perform all of the following:
                     a.     Analogue-to-digital conversions meeting any of the following:
                            1.     A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 10 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 1,3 Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS);
                            2.     A resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 1,0 GSPS;
                            3.     A resolution of 12 bit or more, but less than 14 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 1,0 GSPS;
                            4.     A resolution of 14 bit or more, but less than 16 bit, with a "sample rate"
                                   greater than 400 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS); or
                            5.     A resolution of 16 bit or more with a "sample rate" greater than 180 MSPS;
                                          and



                     b.       Any of the following:
                            1.      Storage of digitised data; or
                            2.      Processing of digitised data;
                     N.B.           For analogue-to-digital converter integrated circuits see 3A001.a.5.a.
                     N.B.           For field programmable logic devices see 3A001.a.7.
                     Technicals Notes:
                                          1.       A resolution of n bit corresponds to a quantisation of 2 n levels.

                                          2.       The resolution of the ADC is the number of bits of the digital output of the ADC
                                                 that represents the measured analogue input. Effective Number of Bits (ENOB) is
                                                 not used to determine the resolution of the ADC.
                                          3.       For integrated circuits with non-interleaving "multiple channel ADCs", the
                                                 "sample rate" is not aggregated and the "sample rate" is the maximum rate of any
                                                 single channel.
                                          4.       For integrated circuits with "interleaved ADCs "or with "multiple channel ADCs"
                                                 that are specified to have an interleaved mode of operation, the "sample rates"
                                                 are aggregated and the "sample rate" is the maximum combined total rate of all
                                                 of the interleaved channels.
           b.   Microwave or millimetre wave items as follows:
                Technical Note:
                For purposes of 3A001.b., the parameter peak saturated power output may also be referred to
                on product data sheets as output power, saturated power output, maximum power output, peak
                power output, or peak envelope power output.
                1.    "Vacuum electronic devices" and cathodes, as follows:
                      Note 1:       3A001.b.1. does not control "vacuum electronic devices" designed or rated for
                                    operation in any frequency band and having all of the following:
                                    a.     Does not exceed 31,8 GHz; and
                                    b.     Is "allocated by the ITU" for radio-communications services, but not
                                           for radio-determination.
                      Note 2:       3A001.b.1. does not control non-"space-qualified" "vacuum electronic
                                    devices" having all of the following:
                                    a.     An average output power equal to or less than 50 W; and
                                    b.     Designed or rated for operation in any frequency band and having all
                                           of the following:
                                          1.      Exceeds 31,8 GHz but does not exceed 43,5 GHz; and

                                          2.      Is "allocated by the ITU" for radio-communications services, but
                                                  not for radio-determination.


                      a.       Travelling-wave "vacuum electronic devices", pulsed or continuous wave, as
                               follows:
                               1.      Devices operating at frequencies exceeding 31,8 GHz;
                               2.      Devices having a cathode heater with a turn on time to rated RF power of
                                       less than 3 seconds;
                               3.     Coupled cavity devices, or derivatives thereof, with a "fractional
                                   bandwidth" of more than 7% or a peak power exceeding 2,5 kW;
                               4.     Devices based on helix, folded waveguide, or serpentine waveguide
                                   circuits, or derivatives thereof, having any of the following:
                                   a.     An "instantaneous bandwidth" of more than one octave, and average
                                          power (expressed in kW) times frequency (expressed in GHz) of
                                          more than 0,5;
                                   b.     An "instantaneous bandwidth" of one octave or less, and average
                                          power (expressed in kW) times frequency (expressed in GHz) of
                                          more than 1;
                                   c.     Being "space-qualified"; or
                                   d.     Having a gridded electron gun;

                               5.     Devices with a "fractional bandwidth" greater than or equal to 10%, with
                                   any of the following:
                                   a.     An annular electron beam;
                                   b.     A non-axisymmetric electron beam; or
                                   c.     Multiple electron beams;
                     b.     Crossed-field amplifier "vacuum electronic devices" with a gain of more than
                            17 dB;
                     c.     Thermionic cathodes designed for "vacuum electronic devices" producing an
                            emission current density at rated operating conditions exceeding 5 A/cm2 or a
                            pulsed (non-continuous) current density at rated operating conditions exceeding
                            10 A/cm2;
                     d.     "Vacuum electronic devices" with the capability to operate in a 'dual mode'.
                            Technical Note:
                            'Dual mode' means the "vacuum electronic device" beam current can be
                            intentionally changed between continuous-wave and pulsed mode operation by
                            use of a grid and produces a peak pulse output power greater than the continuous-
                            wave output power.
               2.    "Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits" ("MMIC") amplifiers that are any of the
                     following:
                     N.B.   For "MMIC" amplifiers that have an integrated phase shifter see 3A001.b.12.
                     a.     Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz
                            with a "fractional bandwidth" greater than 15%, and having any of the following:
                            1.     A peak saturated power output greater than 75 W (48,75 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 2,9 GHz;
                            2.     A peak saturated power output greater than 55 W (47,4 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 2,9 GHz up to and including 3,2 GHz;
                            3.     A peak saturated power output greater than 40 W (46 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 3,2 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; or
                            4.     A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (43 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 3,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz;




                                                                                                                113
                               CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                     b.     Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 16 GHz
                            with a "fractional bandwidth" greater than 10%, and having any of the following:
                            1.     A peak saturated power output greater than 10 W (40 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 8,5 GHz; or
                            2.     A peak saturated power output greater than 5 W (37 dBm) at any frequency
                                   exceeding 8,5 GHz up to and including 16 GHz;
                     c.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 3 W
                            (34,77 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31,8 GHz,
                            and with a "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
                     d.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,1 nW (-70
                            dBm) at any frequency exceeding 31,8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
                     e.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 1 W (30 dBm)
                            at any frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43,5 GHz, and with a
                            "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
                     f.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 31,62 mW (15
                            dBm) at any frequency exceeding 43,5 GHz up to and including 75 GHz, and with
                            a "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 10%;

                     g.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 10 mW (10
                            dBm) at any frequency exceeding 75 GHz up to and including 90 GHz, and with
                            a "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 5%; or
                     h.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,1 nW (-70
                            dBm) at any frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
                     Note 1:       Not used.
                     Note 2:       The control status of the "MMIC" whose rated operating frequency
                                   includes frequencies listed in more than one frequency range, as defined
                                   by 3A001.b.2.a. to 3A001.b.2.h., is determined by the lowest peak saturated
                                   power output threshold.
                     Note 3:       Notes 1 and 2 in 3A mean that 3A001.b.2. does not control "MMICs" if they are
                                 specially designed for other applications, e.g., telecommunications, radar,
                                 automobiles.
              3.    Discrete microwave transistors that are any of the following:
                     a.     Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz
                          and having any of the following:
                            1.     A peak saturated power output greater than 400 W (56 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 2,9 GHz;
                            2.     A peak saturated power output greater than 205 W (53,12 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 2,9 GHz up to and including 3,2 GHz;
                            3.     A peak saturated power output greater than 115 W (50,61 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 3,2 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; or
                            4.     A peak saturated power output greater than 60 W (47,78 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 3,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz;
                     b.     Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including
                          31,8 GHz and having any of the following:
                            1.     A peak saturated power output greater than 50 W (47 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 8,5 GHz;




                                                                                                                       114
                                   CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                            2.     A peak saturated power output greater than 15 W (41,76 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 8,5 GHz up to and including 12 GHz;
                            3.     A peak saturated power output greater than 40 W (46 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 12 GHz up to and including 16 GHz; or
                            4.     A peak saturated power output greater than 7 W (38,45 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31,8 GHz;
                     c.    Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,5 W
                            (27 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 31,8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
                     d.    Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 1 W (30 dBm)
                            at any frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43,5 GHz;
                     e.    Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,1 nW (-70
                            dBm) at any frequency exceeding 43,5 GHz; or
                     f.    Other than those specified in 3A001.b.3.a. to 3A001.b.3.e and rated for operation
                            with a peak saturated power output greater than 5 W (37,0 dBm) at all frequencies
                            exceeding 8,5 GHz up to and including 31,8 GHz;
                   Note 1:      The control status of a transistor in 3A001.b.3.a. through 3A001.b.3.e.
                                whose rated operating frequency includes frequencies listed in more than
                                one frequency range, as defined by 3A001.b.3.a. to 3A001.b.3.e., is
                                determined by the lowest peak saturated power output threshold.

                   Note 2:      3A001.b.3. includes bare dice, dice mounted on carriers, or dice mounted
                                in packages. Some discrete transistors may also be referred to as power
                                amplifiers, but the status of these discrete transistors is determined by
                                3A001.b.3.
              4.    Microwave solid state amplifiers and microwave assemblies/modules containing
                   microwave solid state amplifiers, that are any of the following:
                     a.    Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz
                         with a "fractional bandwidth" greater than 15%, and having any of the following:
                            1.     A peak saturated power output greater than 500 W (57 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 2,9 GHz;
                            2.     A peak saturated power output greater than 270 W (54,3 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 2,9 GHz up to and including 3,2 GHz;
                            3.     A peak saturated power output greater than 200 W (53 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 3,2 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; or
                            4.     A peak saturated power output greater than 90 W (49,54 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 3,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz;
                     b.    Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 31,8
                         GHz with a "fractional bandwidth" greater than 10%, and having any of the
                         following:
                            1.     A peak saturated power output greater than 70 W (48,54 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 8,5 GHz;
                            2.     A peak saturated power output greater than 50 W (47 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 8,5 GHz up to and including 12 GHz;
                            3.     A peak saturated power output greater than 30 W (44,77 dBm) at any
                                   frequency exceeding 12 GHz up to and including 16 GHz; or



                                                                                                         115
                            CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                            4.      A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (43 dBm) at any
                                    frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31,8 GHz;
                     c.       Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,5 W
                                   (27 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 31,8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
                     d.       Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 2 W (33 dBm)
                                   at any frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43,5 GHz, and with a
                                   "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
                     e.       Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 43,5 GHz and having any of the
                            following:
                            1.      A peak saturated power output greater than 0,2 W (23 dBm) at any
                                    frequency exceeding 43,5 GHz up to and including 75 GHz, and with a
                                    "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
                            2.      A peak saturated power output greater than 20 mW (13 dBm) at any
                                    frequency exceeding 75 GHz up to and including 90 GHz, and with a
                                    "fractional bandwidth" of greater than 5%; or
                            3.      A peak saturated power output greater than 0,1 nW (-70 dBm) at any
                                    frequency exceeding 90 GHz; or
                     f.       Not used
                     N.B.1.        For "MMIC" amplifiers see 3A001.b.2.
                     N.B.2.        For 'transmit/receive modules' and 'transmit modules' see 3A001.b.12.
                     N.B.3.        For converters and harmonic mixers, designed to extend the operating or
                                   frequency range of signal analysers, signal generators, network analysers or
                                 microwave test receivers, see 3A001.b.7.
3A001.b.4.   continued

                     Note 1:       Not used.
                     Note 2:       The control status of an item whose rated operating frequency includes
                                   frequencies listed in more than one frequency range, as defined by
                                 3A001.b.4.a. to 3A001.b.4.e., is determined by the lowest peak saturated
                                 power output threshold.
              5.    Electronically or magnetically tunable band-pass or band-stop filters, having more than
                     5 tunable resonators capable of tuning across a 1,5:1 frequency band (fmax/fmin) in less
                     than 10 µs and having any of the following:
                     a.       A band-pass bandwidth of more than 0,5% of centre frequency; or
                     b.       A band-stop bandwidth of less than 0,5% of centre frequency;
              6.    Not used;
              7.    Converters and harmonic mixers that are any of the following:
                     a.       Designed to extend the frequency range of "signal analysers" beyond 90 GHz;
                     b.       Designed to extend the operating range of signal generators as follows:
                            1.      Beyond 90 GHz;
                            2.      To an output power greater than 100 mW (20 dBm) anywhere within the
                                   frequency range exceeding 43,5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
                     c.       Designed to extend the operating range of network analysers as follows:
                            1.      Beyond 110 GHz;


                            2.     To an output power greater than 31,62 mW (15 dBm) anywhere within the
                                   frequency range exceeding 43,5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
                            3.     To an output power greater than 1 mW (0 dBm) anywhere within the
                                   frequency range exceeding 90 GHz but not exceeding 110 GHz; or
                     d.     Designed to extend the frequency range of microwave test receivers beyond 110
                        GHz;
               8.    Microwave power amplifiers containing "vacuum electronic devices" specified in
                 3A001.b.1. and having all of the following:
                     a.     Operating frequencies above 3 GHz;
                     b.     An average output power to mass ratio exceeding 80 W/kg; and
                     c.     A volume of less than 400 cm3;
                     Note: 3A001.b.8. does not control equipment designed or rated for operation in any
                       frequency band which is "allocated by the ITU" for radio-communications
                       services, but not for radio-determination.
              9.    Microwave power modules (MPM) consisting of, at least, a travelling wave "vacuum
                 electronic device", a "monolithic microwave integrated circuit" ("MMIC") and an
                 integrated electronic power conditioner and having all of the following:
                     a.     A 'turn-on time' from off to fully operational in less than 10 seconds;
                     b.     A volume less than the maximum rated power in Watts multiplied by 10 cm3/W;
                            and
                     c.     An "instantaneous bandwidth" greater than 1 octave (f max > 2fmin) and having any
                        of the following:
                            1.     For frequencies equal to or less than 18 GHz, an RF output power greater
                                   than 100 W; or
                            2.     A frequency greater than 18 GHz;

                     Technical Notes:
                                   1.    To calculate the volume in 3A001.b.9.b., the following example is provided: for a
                                          maximum rated power of 20 W, the volume would be: 20 W x 10 cm3/W = 200 cm3.
                                   2.    The' turn-on time' in 3A001.b.9.a. refers to the time from fully-off to fully
                                          operational, i.e., it includes the warm-up time of the MPM.
              10.   Oscillators or oscillator assemblies, specified to operate with a single sideband (SSB)
                     phase noise, in dBc/Hz, less (better) than -(126 + 20log10F - 20log10f) anywhere within
                     the range of 10 Hz ≤ F ≤ 10 kHz;
                     Technical Note:
                     In 3A001.b.10., F is the offset from the operating frequency in Hz and f is the operating
                     frequency in MHz.

              11.   'Frequency synthesiser' "electronic assemblies" having a "frequency switching time" as
                     specified by any of the following:
                     a.     Less than 143 ps;
                     b.     Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2,2 GHz within the
                            synthesised frequency range exceeding 4,8 GHz but not exceeding 31,8 GHz;
                     c.     Not used;
                     d.     Less than 500 µs for any frequency change exceeding 550 MHz within the
                            synthesised frequency range exceeding 31,8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz;



                                                                                                             117
                                 CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                      e.     Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2,2 GHz within the
                             synthesised frequency range exceeding 37 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz; or
                      f.     Not used;
                      g.     Less than 1 ms within the synthesized frequency range exceeding 90 GHz;
                      Technical Note:
                      A 'frequency synthesiser' is any kind of frequency source, regardless of the actual
                      technique used, providing a multiplicity of simultaneous or alternative output
                      frequencies, from one or more outputs, controlled by, derived from or disciplined by a
                      lesser number of standard (or master) frequencies.
                      N.B.   For general purpose "signal analysers", signal generators, network analysers and
                             microwave test receivers, see 3A002.c., 3A002.d., 3A002.e. and 3A002.f.,
                             respectively.
                12.   'Transmit/receive modules', 'transmit/receive MMICs', 'transmit modules', and 'transmit
                      MMICs', rated for operation at frequencies above 2,7 GHz and having all of the following:
                      a.     A peak saturated power output (in watts), Psat, greater than 505,62 divided by the
                             maximum operating frequency (in GHz) squared [P sat>505,62 W*GHz2/fGHz2] for
                             any channel;
                      b.     A "fractional bandwidth" of 5% or greater for any channel;
                      c.     Any planar side with length d (in cm) equal to or less than 15 divided by the lowest
                             operating frequency in GHz [d ≤ 15cm*GHz*N/f GHz] where N is the number of
                             transmit or transmit/receive channels; and
                      d.     An electronically variable phase shifter per channel.
                      Technical Notes:
                                          1.     A 'transmit/receive module': is a multifunction "electronic assembly" that provides
                                                 bi-directional amplitude and phase control for transmission and reception of
                                                 signals.
                                          2.     A 'transmit module': is an "electronic assembly" that provides amplitude and
                                                 phase control for transmission of signals.
       
                                          3.     A 'transmit/receive MMIC': is a multifunction "MMIC" that provides bi-
                                                 directional amplitude and phase control for transmission and reception of signals.
                                          4.     A 'transmit MMIC': is a "MMIC" that provides amplitude and phase control for
                                                 transmission of signals.
                                          5.     2,7 GHz should be used as the lowest operating frequency (fGHz) in the formula in
                                                 3A001.b.12.c. for transmit/receive or transmit modules that have a rated operation
                                                 range extending downward to 2,7 GHz and below [d≤15cm*GHz*N/2,7 GHz].
                                          6.     3A001.b.12. applies to 'transmit/receive modules' or 'transmit modules' with or
                                                 without a heat sink. The value of d in 3A001.b.12.c. does not include any portion
                                                 of the 'transmit/receive module' or 'transmit module' that functions as a heat sink.
                                          7.     'Transmit/receive modules', or 'transmit modules', or 'transmit/receive MMICs' or
                                                 'transmit MMICs' may or may not have N integrated radiating antenna elements
                                                 where N is the number of transmit or transmit/receive channels.
           c.   Acoustic wave devices as follows and specially designed components therefor:
                1.    Surface acoustic wave and surface skimming (shallow bulk) acoustic wave devices,
                      having any of the following:
                      a.     A carrier frequency exceeding 6 GHz;

 

                       b.     A carrier frequency exceeding 1 GHz, but not exceeding 6 GHz and having any of
                              the following:
                              1.      A 'frequency side-lobe rejection' exceeding 65 dB;
                              2.      A product of the maximum delay time and the bandwidth (time in µs and
                                      bandwidth in MHz) of more than 100;
                              3.      A bandwidth greater than 250 MHz; or
                              4.      A dispersive delay of more than 10 µs; or
                       c.     A carrier frequency of 1 GHz or less and having any of the following:
                              1.      A product of the maximum delay time and the bandwidth (time in µs and
                                      bandwidth in MHz) of more than 100;
                              2.      A dispersive delay of more than 10 µs; or
                              3.      A 'frequency side-lobe rejection' exceeding 65 dB and a bandwidth greater
                                      than 100 MHz;
                       Technical Note:
                       'Frequency side-lobe rejection' is the maximum rejection value specified in data sheet.

                2.     Bulk (volume) acoustic wave devices which permit the direct processing of signals at
                       frequencies exceeding 6 GHz;
                3.     Acoustic-optic "signal processing" devices employing interaction between acoustic
                       waves (bulk wave or surface wave) and light waves which permit the direct processing
                       of signals or images, including spectral analysis, correlation or convolution;
                Note: 3A001.c. does not control acoustic wave devices that are limited to a single band pass,
                      low pass, high pass or notch filtering, or resonating function.
           d.   Electronic devices and circuits containing components, manufactured from "superconductive"
                materials, specially designed for operation at temperatures below the "critical temperature" of at
                least one of the "superconductive" constituents and having any of the following:
                1.     Current switching for digital circuits using "superconductive" gates with a product of
                       delay time per gate (in seconds) and power dissipation per gate (in watts) of less than 10 -
                       14 J; or

                2.     Frequency selection at all frequencies using resonant circuits with Q-values exceeding 10
                       000;
           e.   High energy devices as follows:
                1.     'Cells' as follows:
                       a.     'Primary cells' having any of the following at 20°C;
                              1.      'Energy density' exceeding 550 Wh/kg and a 'continuous power density'
                                      exceeding 50 W/kg; or
                              2.      'Energy density' exceeding 50 Wh/kg and a 'continuous power density'
                                      exceeding 350 W/kg; or
                       b.     'Secondary cells' having an 'energy density' exceeding 350 Wh/kg at 20°C;
                       Technical Notes:
                                          1.    For the purpose of 3A001.e.1., 'energy density' (Wh/kg) is calculated from the
                                                 nominal voltage multiplied by the nominal capacity in ampere-hours (Ah) divided
                                                 by the mass in kilograms. If the nominal capacity is not stated, energy density is
                                                 calculated from the nominal voltage squared then multiplied by the discharge
                                                 duration in hours divided by the discharge load in ohms and the mass in kilograms.
                                          2.     For the purpose of 3A001.e.1., a 'cell' is defined as an electrochemical device,
                                                 which has positive and negative electrodes, an electrolyte, and is a source of
                                                 electrical energy. It is the basic building block of a battery.
                                          3.     For the purpose of 3A001.e.1.a., a 'primary cell' is a 'cell' that is not designed to
                                                 be charged by any other source.
                                          4.     For the purpose of 3A001.e.1.b., a 'secondary cell' is a 'cell' that is designed to be
                                                 charged by an external electrical source.
                                          5.     For the purpose of 3A001.e.1.a., 'continuous power density' (W/kg) is calculated
                                                 from the nominal voltage multiplied by the specified maximum continuous
                                                 discharge current in ampere (A) divided by the mass in kilograms. 'Continuous
                                                 power density' is also referred to as specific power.
                       Note: 3A001.e.1. does not control batteries, including single-cell batteries.
                2.     High energy storage capacitors as follows:
                       N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A201.a. and the Military Goods Controls.
                       a.     Capacitors with a repetition rate of less than 10 Hz (single shot capacitors) and
                              having all of the following:
                              1.     A voltage rating equal to or more than 5 kV;
                              2.     An energy density equal to or more than 250 J/kg; and
                              3.     A total energy equal to or more than 25 kJ;
                       b.     Capacitors with a repetition rate of 10 Hz or more (repetition rated capacitors) and
                              having all of the following:
                              1.     A voltage rating equal to or more than 5 kV;
                              2.     An energy density equal to or more than 50 J/kg;
                              3.     A total energy equal to or more than 100 J; and
                              4.     A charge/discharge cycle life equal to or more than 10 000;
                3.     "Superconductive" electromagnets and solenoids, specially designed to be fully charged
                       or discharged in less than one second and having all of the following:
                       N.B.   SEE ALSO 3A201.b.
                       Note: 3A001.e.3. does not control "superconductive" electromagnets or solenoids
                             specially designed for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) medical equipment.
                       a.     Energy delivered during the discharge exceeding 10 kJ in the first second;
                       b.     Inner diameter of the current carrying windings of more than 250 mm; and
                       c.     Rated for a magnetic induction of more than 8 T or "overall current density" in the
                              winding of more than 300 A/mm2;
                4.     Solar cells, cell-interconnect-coverglass (CIC) assemblies, solar panels, and solar arrays,
                       which are "space-qualified", having a minimum average efficiency exceeding 20% at an
                       operating temperature of 301 K (28°C) under simulated 'AM0' illumination with an
                       irradiance of 1 367 watts per square metre (W/m 2);
                Technical Note:
                'AM0', or 'Air Mass Zero', refers to the spectral irradiance of sun light in the earth's outer
                atmosphere when the distance between the earth and sun is one astronomical unit (AU).
           f.   Rotary input type absolute position encoders having an "accuracy" equal to or less (better) than
                1,0 second of arc and specially designed encoder rings, discs or scales therefor;
 
       g.   Solid-state pulsed power switching thyristor devices and 'thyristor modules', using either
       electrically, optically, or electron radiation controlled switch methods and having any of the
       following:
              1.     A maximum turn-on current rate of rise (di/dt) greater than 30 000 A/µs and off-state
                     voltage greater than 1 100 V; or
              2.     A maximum turn-on current rate of rise (di/dt) greater than 2 000 A/µs and having all of
                     the following:
                     a.     An off-state peak voltage equal to or greater than 3 000 V; and
                     b.     A peak (surge) current equal to or greater than 3 000 A.
                     Note 1:       3A001.g. includes:
                                          –      Silicon Controlled Rectifiers (SCRs)
                                          –      Electrical Triggering Thyristors (ETTs)
                                          –      Light Triggering Thyristors (LTTs)
                                          –      Integrated Gate Commutated Thyristors (IGCTs)
                                          –      Gate Turn-off Thyristors (GTOs)
                                          –      MOS Controlled Thyristors (MCTs)
                                          –      Solidtrons
                     Note 2:       3A001.g. does not control thyristor devices and 'thyristor modules'
                                   incorporated into equipment designed for civil railway or "civil aircraft"
                                   applications.
                     Technical Note:
                     For the purposes of 3A001.g., a 'thyristor module' contains one or more thyristor devices.
       h.   Solid-state power semiconductor switches, diodes, or 'modules', having all of the following:
              1.     Rated for a maximum operating junction temperature greater than 488 K (215°C);
              2.     Repetitive peak off-state voltage (blocking voltage) exceeding 300 V; and
              3.     Continuous current greater than 1 A.
              Note 1:       Repetitive peak off-state voltage in 3A001.h. includes drain to source voltage,
                            collector to emitter voltage, repetitive peak reverse voltage and peak repetitive
                            off-state blocking voltage.


  
               Note 2:       3A001.h. includes:
                                          –     Junction Field Effect Transistors (JFETs)
                                          –     Vertical Junction Field Effect Transistors (VJFETs)
                                          –     Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors (MOSFETs)
                                          –     Double Diffused Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor
                                                 (DMOSFET)
                                          –     Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor (IGBT)
                                          –     High Electron Mobility Transistors (HEMTs)
                                          –     Bipolar Junction Transistors (BJTs)
                                          –     Thyristors and Silicon Controlled Rectifiers (SCRs)
                                          –     Gate Turn-Off Thyristors (GTOs)
                                          –     Emitter Turn-Off Thyristors (ETOs)
                                          –     PiN Diodes
                                          –     Schottky Diodes
               Note 3:       3A001.h. does not control switches, diodes, or 'modules', incorporated into
                             equipment designed for civil automobile, civil railway or "civil aircraft"
                             applications.
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 3A001.h., 'modules' contain one or more solid-state power semiconductor
               switches or diodes.
         i.    Intensity, amplitude, or phase electro-optic modulators, designed for analogue signals and having
               any of the following:
               1.     A maximum operating frequency of more than 10 GHz but less than 20 GHz, an optical
                      insertion loss equal to or less than 3 dB and having any of the following:
                      a.     A 'half-wave voltage' ('Vπ') less than 2,7 V when measured at a frequency of 1
                             GHz or below; or
                      b.     A 'Vπ' of less than 4 V when measured at a frequency of more than 1 GHz; or
               2.     A maximum operating frequency equal to or greater than 20 GHz, an optical insertion
                      loss equal to or less than 3 dB and having any of the following:
                      a.     A 'Vπ' less than 3,3 V when measured at a frequency of 1 GHz or below; or
                      b.     A 'Vπ' less than 5 V when measured at a frequency of more than 1 GHz.
               Note: 3A001.i. includes electro-optic modulators having optical input and output connectors
                     (e.g., fibre-optic pigtails).
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 3A001.i., a 'half-wave voltage' ('Vπ') is the applied voltage necessary to
               make a phase change of 180 degrees in the wavelength of light propagating through the optical
               modulator. 

3A002    General purpose "electronic assemblies", modules and equipment, as follows:
         a.    Recording equipment and oscilloscopes as follows:
               1.     Not used;
               2.     Not used;
               3.     Not used;
               4.     Not used;
               5.     Not used;
               6.     Digital data recorders having all of the following:




                                                                                                                   122
                                   CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                       a.     A sustained 'continuous throughput' of more than 6,4 Gbit/s to disk or solid-state
                              drive memory; and
                       b.     "Signal processing" of the radio frequency signal data while it is being recorded;
3A002.a.        continued

                       Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For recorders with a parallel bus architecture, the 'continuous throughput' rate is
                                          the highest word rate multiplied by the number of bits in a word.
                                   2.     'Continuous throughput' is the fastest data rate the instrument can record to disk
                                          or solid-state drive memory without the loss of any information while sustaining
                                          the input digital data rate or digitizer conversion rate.
                7.     Real-time oscilloscopes having a vertical root-mean-square (rms) noise voltage of less
                       than 2% of full-scale at the vertical scale setting that provides the lowest noise value for
                       any input 3dB bandwidth of 60 GHz or greater per channel;
                Note: 3A002.a.7. does not control equivalent-time sampling oscilloscopes.
           b.   Not used;
           c.   "Signal analysers" as follows:
                1.     "Signal analysers" having a 3 dB resolution bandwidth (RBW) exceeding 40 MHz
                       anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 31,8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz;
                2.     "Signal analysers" having Displayed Average Noise Level (DANL) less (better) than -
                       150 dBm/Hz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 43,5 GHz but not exceeding
                       90 GHz;
                3.     "Signal analysers" having a frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
                4.     "Signal analysers" having all of the following:
                       a.     'Real-time bandwidth' exceeding 170 MHz; and
                       b.     Having any of the following:
                              1.     100% probability of discovery with less than a 3 dB reduction from full
                                     amplitude due to gaps or windowing effects of signals having a duration of
                                     15 µs or less; or
                              2.     A 'frequency mask trigger' function with 100% probability of trigger
                                     (capture) for signals having a duration of 15 µs or less;
                              Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Real-time bandwidth' is the widest frequency range for which the analyser
                                          can continuously transform time-domain data entirely into frequency-
                                          domain results, using a Fourier or other discrete time transform that
                                          processes every incoming time point, without a reduction of measured
                                          amplitude of more than 3 dB below the actual signal amplitude caused by
                                          gaps or windowing effects, while outputting or displaying the transformed
                                          data.
                                   2.    Probability of discovery in 3A002.c.4.b.1. is also referred to as probability
                                          of intercept or probability of capture.
                                   3.    For the purposes of 3A002.c.4.b.1., the duration for 100% probability of
                                          discovery is equivalent to the minimum signal duration necessary for the
                                          specified level measurement uncertainty.
                                   4.    A 'frequency mask trigger' is a mechanism where the trigger function is
                                          able to select a frequency range to be triggered on as a subset of the
                                          acquisition bandwidth while ignoring other signals that may also be
                                          present within the same acquisition bandwidth. A 'frequency mask trigger'
                                          may contain more than one independent set of limits.



                                                                                                                      123
                 CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

     Note: 3A002.c.4. does not control those "signal analysers" using only constant
           percentage bandwidth filters (also known as octave or fractional octave filters).
5.   Not used;




                                                                                               124
                               CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

3A002 continued

        d.   Signal generators having any of the following:
             1.     Specified to generate pulse-modulated signals having all of the following, anywhere
                    within the frequency range exceeding 31,8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz:
                    a.     'Pulse duration' of less than 25 ns; and
                    b.     On/off ratio equal to or exceeding 65 dB;
             2.     An output power exceeding 100 mW (20 dBm) anywhere within the frequency range
                    exceeding 43,5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
             3.     A "frequency switching time" as specified by any of the following:
                    a.     Not used;
                    b.     Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2,2 GHz within the
                           frequency range exceeding 4,8 GHz but not exceeding 31,8 GHz;
                    c.     Not used;
                    d.     Less than 500 µs for any frequency change exceeding 550 MHz within the
                           frequency range exceeding 31,8 GHz but not exceeding 37 GHz; or
                    e.     Less than 100 µs for any frequency change exceeding 2,2 GHz within the
                           frequency range exceeding 37 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
                    f.     Not used;
             4.     Single sideband (SSB) phase noise, in dBc/Hz, specified as being any of the following:
                    a.     Less (better) than -(126 + 20log10F - 20log10f) anywhere within the range of
                           10 Hz ≤ F ≤ 10 kHz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 3,2 GHz but
                           not exceeding 90 GHz; or
                    b.     Less (better) than -(206 - 20log10f) anywhere within the range of
                           10 kHz< F≤ 100 kHz anywhere within the frequency range exceeding 3,2 GHz but
                           not exceeding 90 GHz;
                    Technical Note:
                    In 3A002.d.4., F is the offset from the operating frequency in Hz and f is the operating
                    frequency in MHz;
             5.     An 'RF modulation bandwidth’ of digital baseband signals as specified by any of the
                    following:
                    a.     Exceeding 2,2 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 4,8 GHz but not
                           exceeding 31,8 GHz;
                    b.     Exceeding 550 MHz within the frequency range exceeding 31,8 GHz but not
                           exceeding 37 GHz; or
                    c.     Exceeding 2,2 GHz within the frequency range exceeding 37 GHz but not
                           exceeding 90 GHz; or
                    Technical Note:
                    'RF modulation bandwidth' is the Radio Frequency (RF) bandwidth occupied by a
                    digitally encoded baseband signal modulated onto an RF signal. It is also referred to as
                    information bandwidth or vector modulation bandwidth. I/Q digital modulation is the
                    technical method for producing a vector-modulated RF output signal, and that output
                    signal is typically specified as having an 'RF modulation bandwidth'.
             6.     A maximum frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
             Note 1:       For the purpose of 3A002.d., signal generators include arbitrary waveform and
                           function generators.




                                                                                                               125
                                  CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

3A002.d.        continued

                Note 2:       3A002.d. does not control equipment in which the output frequency is either
                              produced by the addition or subtraction of two or more crystal oscillator
                              frequencies, or by an addition or subtraction followed by a multiplication of the
                              result.
                Technical Notes:
                                   1.    The maximum frequency of an arbitrary waveform or function generator is calculated by
                                          dividing the sample rate, in samples/second, by a factor of 2,5.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 3A002.d.1.a, 'pulse duration' is defined as the time interval from the
                                          point on the leading edge that is 50% of the pulse amplitude to the point on the trailing
                                          edge that is 50% of the pulse amplitude.
           e.   Network analysers having any of the following:
                1.     An output power exceeding 31,62 mW (15 dBm) anywhere within the operating
                       frequency range exceeding 43,5 GHz but not exceeding 90 GHz;
                2.     An output power exceeding 1 mW (0 dBm) anywhere within the operating frequency
                       range exceeding 90 GHz but not exceeding 110 GHz;
                3.     'Nonlinear vector measurement functionality' at frequencies exceeding 50 GHz but not
                       exceeding 110 GHz; or
                Technical Note:
                'Nonlinear vector measurement functionality' is an instrument’s ability to analyse the test results
                of devices driven into the large-signal domain or the non-linear distortion range.
                4.     A maximum operating frequency exceeding 110 GHz;
           f.   Microwave test receivers having all of the following:
                1.     A maximum operating frequency exceeding 110 GHz; and
                2.     Being capable of measuring amplitude and phase simultaneously;
           g.   Atomic frequency standards being any of the following:
                1.     "Space-qualified";
                                                                                                -11
                2.     Non-rubidium and having a long-term stability less (better) than 1 x 10 /month; or
                3.     Non-"space-qualified" and having all of the following:
                       a.     Being a rubidium standard;
                                                                           -11
                       b.     Long-term stability less (better) than 1 x 10 /month; and
                       c.     Total power consumption of less than 1 W;
           h.   "Electronic assemblies", modules, or equipment, specified to perform all of the following:
                1.     Analogue-to-digital conversions meeting any of the following:
                       a.     A resolution of 8 bit or more, but less than 10 bit, with a "sample rate" greater
                              than 1,3 Giga Samples Per Second (GSPS);
                       b.     A resolution of 10 bit or more, but less than 12 bit, with a "sample rate" greater
                              than 1,0 GSPS;
                       c.     A resolution of 12 bit or more, but less than 14 bit, with a "sample rate" greater
                              than 1,0 GSPS;
                       d.     A resolution of 14 bit or more but less than 16 bit, with a "sample rate" greater
                              than 400 Mega Samples Per Second (MSPS); or
                       e.     A resolution of 16 bit or more with a "sample rate" greater than 180 MSPS; and



                                                                                                                      126
                                     CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

                  2.     Any of the following:
                         a.      Output of digitized data;
3A002.h.          continued

                         b.      Storage of digitized data; or
                         c.      Processing of digitized data;
                  N.B.   Digital data recorders, oscilloscopes, "signal analysers", signal generators, network
                         analysers and microwave test receivers, are specified in 3A002.a.6., 3A002.a.7.,
                         3A002.c., 3A002.d., 3A002.e. and 3A002.f., respectively.
                         Technical Notes:
                                   1.    A resolution of n bit corresponds to a quantisation of 2 n levels.
                                   2.    The resolution of the ADC is the number of bits of the digital output of the ADC
                                          that represents the measured analogue input. Effective Number of Bits (ENOB) is
                                          not used to determine the resolution of the ADC.
                                   3.    For non-interleaved multiple-channel "electronic assemblies", modules, or
                                          equipment, the "sample rate" is not aggregated and the "sample rate" is the
                                          maximum rate of any single-channel.
                                   4.    For interleaved channels on multiple-channel "electronic assemblies", modules,
                                          or equipment, the "sample rates" are aggregated and the "sample rate" is the
                                          maximum combined total rate of all the interleaved channels.
                         Note: 3A002.h. includes ADC cards, waveform digitizers, data acquisition cards, signal
                               acquisition boards and transient recorders.


3A003      Spray cooling thermal management systems employing closed loop fluid handling and reconditioning
           equipment in a sealed enclosure where a dielectric fluid is sprayed onto electronic components using
           specially designed spray nozzles that are designed to maintain electronic components within their
           operating temperature range, and specially designed components therefor.
3A101      Electronic equipment, devices and components, other than those specified in 3A001, as follows:
           a.     Analogue-to-digital converters, usable in "missiles", designed to meet military specifications for
                  ruggedized equipment;
           b.     Accelerators capable of delivering electromagnetic radiation produced by bremsstrahlung from
                  accelerated electrons of 2 MeV or greater, and systems containing those accelerators.
                  Note: 3A101.b. above does not specify equipment specially designed for medical purposes.
3A102      'Thermal batteries' designed or modified for 'missiles'.
           Technical Notes:
                                   1.    In 3A102 'thermal batteries' are single use batteries that contain a solid non-conducting
                                          inorganic salt as the electrolyte. These batteries incorporate a pyrolytic material that, when
                                          ignited, melts the electrolyte and activates the battery.
                                   2.    In 3A102 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable
                                          of a range exceeding 300 km.
3A201      Electronic components, other than those specified in 3A001, as follows;
           a.     Capacitors having either of the following sets of characteristics:
              1.     
                     a.      Voltage rating greater than 1,4 kV;
                     b.      Energy storage greater than 10 J;
                     c.      Capacitance greater than 0,5 μF; and
                     d.      Series inductance less than 50 nH; or
              2.     
                     a.      Voltage rating greater than 750 V;
                     b.      Capacitance greater than 0,25 μF; and
                     c.      Series inductance less than 10 nH;

           b.        Superconducting solenoidal electromagnets having all of the following characteristics:
              1.     Capable of creating magnetic fields greater than 2 T;
              2.     A ratio of length to inner diameter greater than 2;
              3.     Inner diameter greater than 300 mm; and
              4.     Magnetic field uniform to better than 1% over the central 50% of the inner volume;
              Note: 3A201.b. does not control magnets specially designed for and exported 'as parts of'
                           medical nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging systems. The phrase 'as part of' does
                           not necessarily mean physical part in the same shipment; separate shipments from
                           different sources are allowed, provided the related export documents clearly specify that
                           the shipments are dispatched 'as part of' the imaging systems.
           c.        Flash X-ray generators or pulsed electron accelerators having either of the following sets of
                     characteristics:
                 1.     
                     a.     An accelerator peak electron energy of 500 keV or greater but less than 25 MeV;
                                   and
                     b.     With a 'figure of merit' (K) of 0,25 or greater; or
                 2.     
                     a.     An accelerator peak electron energy of 25 MeV or greater; and
                     b.     A 'peak power' greater than 50 MW.
                 Note: 3A201.c. does not control accelerators that are component parts of devices designed for
                           purposes other than electron beam or X-ray radiation (electron microscopy, for example)
                           nor those designed for medical purposes.
                  Technical Notes:
                                          1.    The 'figure of merit' (K) is defined as:
                                          K = 1,7 x 103V2,65Q
                                          V is the peak electron energy in million electron volts.
                                          If the accelerator beam pulse duration is less than or equal to 1 µs, then Q is the total
                                          accelerated charge in Coulombs. If the accelerator beam pulse duration is greater than
                                          1 µs, then Q is the maximum accelerated charge in 1 µs.
                                          Q equals the integral of i with respect to t, over the lesser of 1 µs or the time duration of
                                          the beam pulse (Q =  idt), where i is beam current in amperes and t is time in seconds.
                                          2.    'Peak power' = (peak potential in volts) x (peak beam current in amperes).
                                          3.    In machines based on microwave accelerating cavities, the time duration of the beam
                                          pulse is the lesser of 1 µs or the duration of the bunched beam packet resulting from one
                                          microwave modulator pulse.
                                          4.    In machines based on microwave accelerating cavities, the peak beam current is the
                                          average current in the time duration of a bunched beam packet.
3A225      Frequency changers or generators, other than those specified in 0B001.b.13., usable as a variable or
           fixed frequency motor drive, having all of the following characteristics:
           N.B. 1.          "Software" specially designed to enhance or release the performance of a frequency
                            changer or generator to meet the characteristics of 3A225 is specified in 3D225.
           N.B. 2.          "Technology" in the form of codes or keys to enhance or release the performance of a
                            frequency changer or generator to meet the characteristics of 3A225 is specified in
                            3E225.
           a.        Multiphase output providing a power of 40 VA or greater;
           b.        Operating at a frequency of 600 Hz or more; and
           c.        Frequency control better (less) than 0,2%.




                                                                                                                           128
                                 CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

        Note: 3A225 does not control frequency changers or generators if they have hardware, "software" or
              "technology" constraints that limit the performance to less than that specified above, provided
              they meet any of the following:
                                          1.     They need to be returned to the original manufacturer to make the enhancements or
                                                 release the constraints;
                                          2.     They require "software" as specified in 3D225 to enhance or release the performance to
                                                 meet the characteristics of 3A225; or
                                          3.     They require "technology" in the form of keys or codes as specified in 3E225 to enhance
                                                 or release the performance to meet the characteristics of 3A225.


3A225 continued

        Technical Notes:
                                          1.    Frequency changers in 3A225 are also known as converters or inverters.
                                          2.    Frequency changers in 3A225 may be marketed as Generators, Electronic Test Equipment, AC
                                                 Power Supplies, Variable Speed Motors Drives, Variable Speed Drives (VSDs), Variable
                                                 Frequency Drives (VFDs), Adjustable Frequency Drives (AFDs), or Adjustable Speed Drives
                                                 (ASDs).
3A226   High-power direct current power supplies, other than those specified in 0B001.j.6., having both of the
        following characteristics:
        a.     Capable of continuously producing, over a time period of 8 hours, 100 V or greater with current
               output of 500 A or greater; and
        b.     Current or voltage stability better than 0,1% over a time period of 8 hours.
3A227   High-voltage direct current power supplies, other than those specified in 0B001.j.5., having both of the
        following characteristics:
        a.     Capable of continuously producing, over a time period of 8 hours, 20 kV or greater with current
               output of 1 A or greater; and
        b.     Current or voltage stability better than 0,1% over a time period of 8 hours.
3A228   Switching devices, as follows:
        a.     Cold-cathode tubes, whether gas filled or not, operating similarly to a spark gap, having all of
               the following characteristics:
               1.     Containing three or more electrodes;
               2.     Anode peak voltage rating of 2,5 kV or more;
               3.     Anode peak current rating of 100 A or more; and
               4.     Anode delay time of 10 µs or less;
               Note: 3A228 includes gas krytron tubes and vacuum sprytron tubes.
        b.     Triggered spark-gaps having both of the following characteristics:
               1.     An anode delay time of 15 µs or less; and
               2.     Rated for a peak current of 500 A or more;
        c.     Modules or assemblies with a fast switching function, other than those specified in 3A001.g. or
               3A001.h., having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Anode peak voltage rating greater than 2 kV;
               2.     Anode peak current rating of 500 A or more; and
               3.     Turn-on time of 1 µs or less.
3A229   High-current pulse generators as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.


                                                                                                                   129
                                  CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

        a.     Detonator firing sets (initiator systems, firesets), including electronically-charged, explosively-
               driven and optically-driven firing sets, other than those specified in 1A007.a., designed to drive
               multiple controlled detonators specified in 1A007.b.;
        b.     Modular electrical pulse generators (pulsers) having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Designed for portable, mobile, or ruggedized-use;
               2.     Capable of delivering their energy in less than 15 µs into loads of less than 40 ohms;
               3.     Having an output greater than 100 A;
               4.     No dimension greater than 30 cm;
               5.     Weight less than 30 kg; and
3A229 continued

               6.     Specified for use over an extended temperature range 223 K (-50oC) to 373 K (100oC) or
                      specified as suitable for aerospace applications.
               Note: 3A229.b. includes xenon flash-lamp drivers.
        c.     Micro-firing units having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     No dimension greater than 35 mm;
               2.     Voltage rating of equal to or greater than 1 kV; and
               3.     Capacitance of equal to or greater than 100 nF.
3A230   High-speed pulse generators, and 'pulse heads' therefor, having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     Output voltage greater than 6 V into a resistive load of less than 55 ohms, and
        b.     'Pulse transition time' less than 500 ps.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    In 3A230, 'pulse transition time' is defined as the time interval between 10% and 90% voltage
                                          amplitude.
                                   2.    'Pulse heads' are impulse forming networks designed to accept a voltage step function and shape
                                          it into a variety of pulse forms that can include rectangular, triangular, step, impulse,
                                          exponential, or monocycle types. 'Pulse heads' can be an integral part of the pulse generator,
                                          they can be a plug-in module to the device or they can be an externally connected device.
3A231   Neutron generator systems, including tubes, having both of the following characteristics:
        a.     Designed for operation without an external vacuum system; and
        b.     Utilizing any of the following:
               1.     Electrostatic acceleration to induce a tritium-deuterium nuclear reaction; or
               2.     Electrostatic acceleration to induce a deuterium-deuterium nuclear reaction and capable
                      of an output of 3 x 109 neutrons/s or greater.
3A232   Multipoint initiation systems, other than those specified in 1A007, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        N.B.   See 1A007.b. for detonators.
        a.     Not used;
        b.     Arrangements using single or multiple detonators designed to nearly simultaneously initiate an
               explosive surface over an area greater than 5 000 mm2 from a single firing signal with an
               initiation timing spread over the surface of less than 2,5 μs.
        Note: 3A232 does not control detonators using only primary explosives, such as lead azide.
3A233   Mass spectrometers, other than those specified in 0B002.g., capable of measuring ions of 230 u or
        greater and having a resolution of better than 2 parts in 230, as follows, and ion sources therefor:


                                                                                                                     130
                                  CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

        a.     Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometers (ICP/MS);
        b.     Glow discharge mass spectrometers (GDMS);
        c.     Thermal ionization mass spectrometers (TIMS);
        d.     Electron bombardment mass spectrometers having both of the following features:
               1.     A molecular beam inlet system that injects a collimated beam of analyte molecules into a
                      region of the ion source where the molecules are ionized by an electron beam; and
               2.     One or more 'cold traps' that can be cooled to a temperature of 193 K (-80°C);
        e.     Not used;
        f.     Mass spectrometers equipped with a microfluorination ion source designed for actinides or
               actinide fluorides.
3A233 continued

        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    Electron bombardment mass spectrometers in 3A233.d. are also known as electron impact mass
                                          spectrometers or electron ionization mass spectrometers.
                                   2.    In 3A233.d.2., a 'cold trap' is a device that traps gas molecules by condensing or freezing them
                                          on cold surfaces. For the purposes of 3A233.d.2., a closed-loop gaseous helium cryogenic
                                          vacuum pump is not a 'cold trap'.
3A234   Striplines to provide low inductance path to detonators with the following characteristics:
        a.     Voltage rating greater than 2 kV; and
        b      Inductance of less than 20 nH.


3B      Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
3B001   Equipment for the manufacturing of semiconductor devices or materials, as follows and specially
        designed components and accessories therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B226
        a.     Equipment designed for epitaxial growth as follows:
               1.     Equipment designed or modified to produce a layer of any material other than silicon
                      with a thickness uniform to less than ± 2,5% across a distance of 75 mm or more;
                      Note: 3B001.a.1. includes Atomic Layer Epitaxy (ALE) equipment.
               2.     Metal Organic Chemical Vapour Deposition (MOCVD) reactors designed for compound
                      semiconductor epitaxial growth of material having two or more of the following elements:
                      aluminium, gallium, indium, arsenic, phosphorus, antimony, or nitrogen;
               3.     Molecular beam epitaxial growth equipment using gas or solid sources;
        b.     Equipment designed for ion implantation and having any of the following:
               1.     Not used;
               2.     Being designed and optimized to operate at a beam energy of 20 keV or more and a beam
                      current of 10 mA or more for hydrogen, deuterium or helium implant;
               3.     Direct write capability;
               4.     A beam energy of 65 keV or more and a beam current of 45 mA or more for high energy
                      oxygen implant into a heated semiconductor material "substrate"; or
               5.     Being designed and optimized to operate at a beam energy of 20 keV or more and a beam
                      current of 10 mA or more for silicon implant into a semiconductor material "substrate"
                      heated to 600°C or greater;



                                                                                                                 131
                      CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

       c.   Not used;
       d.   Not used;
       e.   Automatic loading multi-chamber central wafer handling systems having all of the following:
              1.    Interfaces for wafer input and output, to which more than two functionally different
                     'semiconductor process tools' specified in 3B001.a.1., 3B001.a.2., 3B001.a.3. or 3B001.b.
                     are designed to be connected; and
              2.    Designed to form an integrated system in a vacuum environment for 'sequential multiple
                     wafer processing';
              Note: 3B001.e. does not control automatic robotic wafer handling systems specially designed
                     for parallel wafer processing.

  
             Technical Notes:
                                   1.     For the purpose of 3B001.e., 'semiconductor process tools' refers to modular tools that
                                          provide physical processes for semiconductor production that are functionally different,
                                          such as deposition, implant or thermal processing.
                                   2.     For the purpose of 3B001.e., 'sequential multiple wafer processing' means the capability
                                          to process each wafer in different 'semiconductor process tools', such as by transferring
                                          each wafer from one tool to a second tool and on to a third tool with the automatic loading
                                          multi-chamber central wafer handling systems.
        f.   Lithography equipment as follows:
              1.     Align and expose step and repeat (direct step on wafer) or step and scan (scanner)
                     equipment for wafer processing using photo-optical or X-ray methods and having any of
                     the following:
                     a.     A light source wavelength shorter than 193 nm; or
                     b.     Capable of producing a pattern with a 'Minimum Resolvable Feature size' (MRF)
                            of 45 nm or less;
                            Technical Note:
                            The 'Minimum Resolvable Feature size' (MRF) is calculated by the following
                            formula:
                                          MRF = (an exposure light source wavelength in nm) x (K factor)
                                                               numerical aperture

                            where the K factor = 0,35
              2.     Imprint lithography equipment capable of producing features of 45 nm or less;
                     Note: 3B001.f.2. includes:
                                                 –     Micro contact printing tools
                                                 –     Hot embossing tools
                                                 –     Nano-imprint lithography tools
                                                 –     Step and flash imprint lithography (S-FIL) tools
              3.     Equipment specially designed for mask making having all of the following:
                     a.     A deflected focussed electron beam, ion beam or "laser" beam; and
                     b.     Having any of the following:
                            1.     A full-width half-maximum (FWHM) spot size smaller than 65 nm and an
                                   image placement less than 17 nm (mean + 3 sigma); or
                            2.     Not used;
                            3.     A second-layer overlay error of less than 23 nm (mean + 3 sigma) on the
                                   mask;
              4.     Equipment designed for device processing using direct writing methods, having all of the
                     following:
                     a.     A deflected focused electron beam; and
                     b.     Having any of the following:
                            1.     A minimum beam size equal to or smaller than 15 nm; or
                            2.     An overlay error less than 27 nm (mean + 3 sigma);
        g.   Masks and reticles, designed for integrated circuits specified in 3A001;
        h.   Multi-layer masks with a phase shift layer not specified in 3B001.g. and designed to be used by
             lithography equipment having a light source wavelength less than 245 nm;

 

               Note: 3B001.h. does not control multi-layer masks with a phase shift layer designed for the
                     fabrication of memory devices not specified in 3A001.
               N.B.   For masks and reticles, specially designed for optical sensors, see 6B002.
        i.     Imprint lithography templates designed for integrated circuits specified in 3A001.
        j.     Mask "substrate blanks" with multilayer reflector structure consisting of molybdenum and
               silicon, and having all of the following:
               1.     Specially designed for 'Extreme Ultraviolet' ('EUV') lithography; and
               2.     Compliant with SEMI Standard P37.
               Technical Note:
               'Extreme Ultraviolet' ('EUV') refers to electromagnetic spectrum wavelengths greater than 5 nm
               and less than 124 nm.


3B002   Test equipment specially designed for testing finished or unfinished semiconductor devices as follows
        and specially designed components and accessories therefor:
        a.     For testing S-parameters of items specified in 3A001.b.3.;
        b.     Not used;
        c.     For testing items specified in 3A001.b.2.


3C      Materials
3C001   Hetero-epitaxial materials consisting of a "substrate" having stacked epitaxially grown multiple layers
        of any of the following:
        a.     Silicon (Si);
        b.     Germanium (Ge);
        c.     Silicon carbide (SiC); or
        d.     "III/V compounds" of gallium or indium.
        Note: 3C001.d. does not control a "substrate" having one or more P-type epitaxial layers of GaN,
              InGaN, AlGaN, InAlN, InAlGaN, GaP, GaAs, AlGaAs, InP, InGaP, AlInP or InGaAlP,
              independent of the sequence of the elements, except if the P-type epitaxial layer is between N-
              type layers.
3C002   Resist materials as follows and "substrates" coated with the following resists:
        a.     Resists designed for semiconductor lithography as follows:
               1.     Positive resists adjusted (optimised) for use at wavelengths less than 193 nm but equal to
                      or greater than 15 nm;
               2.     Resists adjusted (optimised) for use at wavelengths less than 15 nm but greater than 1 nm;
        b.     All resists designed for use with electron beams or ion beams, with a sensitivity of
               0,01 µcoulomb/mm2 or better;
        c.     Not used;
        d.     All resists optimised for surface imaging technologies;
        e.     All resists designed or optimised for use with imprint lithography equipment specified in
               3B001.f.2. that use either a thermal or photo-curable process.




                                                                                                                   135
                                  CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

3C003   Organo-inorganic compounds as follows:
        a.     Organo-metallic compounds of aluminium, gallium or indium, having a purity (metal basis)
               better than 99,999%;
        b.     Organo-arsenic, organo-antimony and organo-phosphorus compounds, having a purity
               (inorganic element basis) better than 99,999%.
        Note: 3C003 only controls compounds whose metallic, partly metallic or non-metallic element is
              directly linked to carbon in the organic part of the molecule.
3C004   Hydrides of phosphorus, arsenic or antimony, having a purity better than 99,999%, even diluted in inert
        gases or hydrogen.
        Note: 3C004 does not control hydrides containing 20% molar or more of inert gases or hydrogen.
3C005   High resistivity materials as follows:
        a.     Silicon carbide (SiC), gallium nitride (GaN), aluminium nitride (AlN) or aluminium gallium
               nitride (AlGaN) semiconductor "substrates", or ingots, boules, or other preforms of those
               materials, having resistivities greater than 10 000 ohm-cm at 20°C;
        b.               Polycrystalline "substrates" or polycrystalline ceramic "substrates", having resistivities
               greater than 10 000 ohm-cm at 20°C and having at least one non-epitaxial single-crystal layer of
               silicon (Si), silicon carbide (SiC), gallium nitride (GaN), aluminium nitride (AlN), or aluminium
               gallium nitride (AlGaN) on the surface of the "substrate".
3C006   Materials, not specified in 3C001, consisting of a "substrate" specified in 3C005 with at least one
        epitaxial layer of silicon carbide, gallium nitride, aluminium nitride or aluminium gallium nitride.
3D      Software
3D001   "Software" specially designed for the "development" or "production" of equipment specified in
        3A001.b. to 3A002.h. or 3B.
3D002   "Software" specially designed for the "use" of equipment specified in 3B001.a. to f., 3B002 or 3A225
3D003   'Computational lithography' "software" specially designed for the "development" of patterns on EUV-
        lithography masks or reticles.
        Technical Note:
        'Computational lithography' is the use of computer modelling to predict, correct, optimise and verify
        imaging performance of the lithography process over a range of patterns, processes, and system
        conditions.
3D004   "Software" specially designed for the "development" of equipment specified in 3A003.
3D005   "Software" specially designed to restore normal operation of a microcomputer, "microprocessor
        microcircuit" or "microcomputer microcircuit" within 1 ms after an Electromagnetic Pulse (EMP) or
        Electrostatic Discharge (ESD) disruption, without loss of continuation of operation.
3D101   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of equipment specified in 3A101.b.
3D225   "Software" specially designed to enhance or release the performance of frequency changers or
        generators to meet the characteristics of 3A225.




                                                                                                                      136
                                CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

3E      Technology
3E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of
        equipment or materials specified in 3A, 3B or 3C;
        Note 1:      3E001 does not control "technology" for equipment or components specified in 3A003.
        Note 2:      3E001 does not control "technology" for integrated circuits specified in 3A001.a.3. to
                     3A001.a.12., having all of the following:
                     a.    Using "technology" at or above 0,130 µm; and
                     b.    Incorporating multi-layer structures with three or fewer metal layers.
        Note 3:      3E001 does not control 'Process Design Kits' ('PDKs') unless they include libraries
                     implementing functions or technologies for items specified in 3A001.
                     Technical Note:
                     A 'Process Design Kit' ('PDK') is a software tool provided by a semiconductor
                     manufacturer to ensure that the required design practices and rules are taken into
                     account in order to successfully produce a specific integrated circuit design in a specific
                     semiconductor process, in accordance with technological and manufacturing constraints
                     (each semiconductor manufacturing process has its particular 'PDK').
3E002   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note, other than that specified in 3E001, for the
        "development" or "production" of a "microprocessor microcircuit", "microcomputer microcircuit" or
        microcontroller microcircuit core, having an arithmetic logic unit with an access width of 32 bits or
        more and any of the following features or characteristics:
        a.    A 'vector processor unit' designed to perform more than two calculations on 'floating-point'
              vectors (one-dimensional arrays of 32-bit or larger numbers) simultaneously;
              Technical Note:
              A 'vector processor unit' is a processor element with built-in instructions that perform multiple
              calculations on 'floating-point' vectors (one-dimensional arrays of 32-bit or larger numbers)
              simultaneously, having at least one vector arithmetic logic unit and vector registers of at least
              32 elements each.
        b.    Designed to perform more than four 64-bit or larger 'floating-point' operation results per cycle;
              or
        c.    Designed to perform more than eight 16-bit 'fixed-point' multiply-accumulate results per cycle
              (e.g., digital manipulation of analogue information that has been previously converted into digital
              form, also known as digital "signal processing").
              Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purpose of 3E002.a. and 3E002.b., 'floating-point' is defined by IEEE-754.
                                   2.    For the purpose of 3E002.c., 'fixed-point' refers to a fixed-width real number with both
                                   an integer component and a fractional component, and which does not include integer-
                                   only formats.
        Note 1:      3E002 does not control "technology" for multimedia extensions.
        Note 2:      3E002 does not control "technology" for micro-processor cores, having all of the
                     following:
                                   a.     Using "technology" at or above 0,130 µm; and
                                   b.     Incorporating multi-layer structures with five or fewer metal layers.
        Note 3:      3E002 includes "technology" for the "development" or "production" of digital signal
                     processors and digital array processors.




                                                                                                                    137
                                 CATEGORY 3 - ELECTRONICS

3E003   Other "technology" for the "development" or "production" of the following:
        a.     Vacuum microelectronic devices;
        b.     Hetero-structure semiconductor electronic devices such as high electron mobility transistors
               (HEMT), hetero-bipolar transistors (HBT), quantum well and super lattice devices;
               Note: 3E003.b. does not control "technology" for high electron mobility transistors (HEMT)
                     operating at frequencies lower than 31,8 GHz and hetero-junction bipolar transistors
                     (HBT) operating at frequencies lower than 31,8 GHz.
        c.     "Superconductive" electronic devices;
        d.     Substrates of films of diamond for electronic components.
        e.     Substrates of silicon-on-insulator (SOI) for integrated circuits in which the insulator is silicon
               dioxide;
        f.     Substrates of silicon carbide for electronic components;
        g.     "Vacuum electronic devices" operating at frequencies of 31,8 GHz or higher.
3E004   "Technology" "required" for the slicing, grinding and polishing of 300 mm diameter silicon wafers to
        achieve a 'Site Front least sQuares Range' ('SFQR') less than or equal to 20 nm at any site of 26 mm x
        8 mm on the front surface of the wafer and an edge exclusion less than or equal to 2 mm.
        Technical Note:
        For the purposes of 3E004 'SFQR' is the range of maximum deviation and minimum deviation from
        front reference plane, calculated by least square method with all front surface data including site
        boundary within a site.
3E101   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment or "software"
        specified in 3A001.a.1. or 2., 3A101, 3A102 or 3D101.
3E102   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of "software"specified
        in 3D101.
3E201   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment specified in
        3A001.e.2., 3A001.e.3., 3A001.g., 3A201, 3A225 to 3A234.
3E225   "Technology", in the form of codes or keys, to enhance or release the performance of frequency
        changers or generators to meet the characteristics of 3A225.




                                                                                                                    138
                                  CATEGORY 4 - COMPUTERS


4A      Systems, Equipment and Components
4A001   Electronic computers and related equipment, having any of the following and "electronic assemblies"
        and specially designed components therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 4A101.
        a.     Specially designed to have any of the following:
               1.     Rated for operation at an ambient temperature below 228 K (-45°C) or above 358 K
                      (85°C); or
                      Note: 4A001.a.1. does not control computers specially designed for civil automobile,
                            railway train or “civil aircraft” applications.
               2.     Radiation hardened to exceed any of the following specifications:
                                                         3
                      a.     Total Dose            5 x 10 Gy (silicon);
                                                         6
                      b.     Dose Rate Upset       5 x 10 Gy (silicon)/s; or
                                                         -8
                      c.     Single Event Upset 1 x 10 Error/bit/day;

                      Note: 4A001.a.2. does not control computers specially designed for "civil aircraft"
                            applications.
        b.     Not used.
4A003   "Digital computers", "electronic assemblies", and related equipment therefor, as follows and specially
        designed components therefor:
        Note 1:       4A003 includes the following:
                                   -     'Vector processors';
                                   -     Array processors;
                                   -     Digital signal processors;
                                   -     Logic processors;
                                   -     Equipment designed for "image enhancement".
        Note 2:       The control status of the "digital computers" and related equipment described in 4A003
                      is determined by the control status of other equipment or systems provided:
                                          a.     The "digital computers" or related equipment are essential for the operation of the
                                                 other equipment or systems;
                                          b.     The "digital computers" or related equipment are not a "principal element" of the
                                                 other equipment or systems; and

                                          N.B. 1:         The control status of "signal processing" or "image enhancement"
                                                        equipment specially designed for other equipment with functions
                                                        limited to those required for the other equipment is determined by
                                                        the control status of the other equipment even if it exceeds the
                                                        "principal element" criterion.
                                          N.B. 2:         For the control status of "digital computers" or related equipment
                                                        for telecommunications equipment, see Category 5, Part 1
                                                        (Telecommunications).
                                          c.     The "technology" for the "digital computers" and related equipment is determined
                                                 by 4E.
        a.    Not used;
        b.    "Digital computers" having an "Adjusted Peak Performance" ("APP") exceeding 29 Weighted
              TeraFLOPS (WT);
        c.    "Electronic assemblies" specially designed or modified for enhancing performance by
              aggregation of processors so that the "APP" of the aggregation exceeds the limit specified in
              4A003.b.;
              Note 1:       4A003.c. controls only "electronic assemblies" and programmable
                            interconnections not exceeding the limit specified in 4A003.b. when shipped as
                            unintegrated "electronic assemblies".
              Note 2:       4A003.c. does not control "electronic assemblies" specially designed for a product
                            or family of products whose maximum configuration does not exceed the limit
                            specified in 4A003.b.
        d.    Not used;
        e.    Not used;
        f.    Not used;
        g.    Equipment specially designed for aggregating the performance of "digital computers" by
              providing external interconnections which allows communications at unidirectional data rates
              exceeding 2,0 Gbyte/s per link.
              Note: 4A003.g. does not control internal interconnection equipment (e.g. backplanes, buses),
                    passive interconnection equipment, "network access controllers" or "communications
                    channel controllers".
4A004   Computers as follows and specially designed related equipment, "electronic assemblies" and
        components therefor:
        a.    'Systolic array computers';
        b.    'Neural computers';
        c.    'Optical computers'.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Systolic array computers' are computers where the flow and modification of the data is
                                          dynamically controllable at the logic gate level by the user.
                                   2.    'Neural computers' are computational devices designed or modified to mimic the behaviour of a
                                          neuron or a collection of neurons, i.e., computational devices which are distinguished by their
                                          hardware capability to modulate the weights and numbers of the interconnections of a
                                          multiplicity of computational components based on previous data.
                                   3.      'Optical computers' are computers designed or modified to use light to represent data and whose
                                          computational logic elements are based on directly coupled optical devices.
4A005   Systems, equipment, and components therefor, specially designed or modified for the generation,
        command and control, or delivery of "intrusion software".
4A101   Analogue computers, "digital computers" or digital differential analysers, other than those specified in
        4A001.a.1., which are ruggedized and designed or modified for use in space launch vehicles specified
        in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
4A102   Hybrid computers specially designed for modelling, simulation or design integration of space launch
        vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
        Note: This control only applies when the equipment is supplied with "software" specified in 7D103 or
              9D103.

4D001   "Software" as follows:
        a.      "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "production" of equipment
                or "software" specified in 4A001 to 4A004, or 4D.
        b.      "Software", other than that specified in 4D001.a., specially designed or modified for the
                "development" or "production" of equipment as follows:
                1.     "Digital computers" having an "Adjusted Peak Performance" ("APP") exceeding 15
                       Weighted TeraFLOPS (WT);
                2.     "Electronic assemblies" specially designed or modified for enhancing performance by
                       aggregation of processors so that the "APP" of the aggregation exceeds the limit in
                       4D001.b.1.
4D002   Not used
4D003   Not used.
4D004   "Software" specially designed or modified for the generation, command and control, or delivery of
        "intrusion software".
        Note:           4D004 does not control "software" specially designed and limited to provide "software"
                updates or upgrades meeting all the following:
                                          a.     The update or upgrade operates only with the authorisation of the owner or administrator
                                                 of the system receiving it; and
                                          b.     After the update or upgrade, the "software" updated or upgraded is not any of the
                                                 following:
                                                 1.     "Software" specified in 4D004; or
                                                 2.     "Intrusion software".
4E        Technology
4E001     a.     "Technology" according to the General Technology Note, for the "development", "production"
                 or "use" of equipment or "software" specified in 4A or 4D.
          b.     "Technology", according to the General Technology Note, other than that specified in 4E001.a.,
                 for the "development" or "production" of equipment as follows:
                 1.     "Digital computers" having an "Adjusted Peak Performance" ("APP") exceeding 15
                        Weighted TeraFLOPS (WT);
                 2.     "Electronic assemblies" specially designed or modified for enhancing performance by
                        aggregation of processors so that the "APP" of the aggregation exceeds the limit in
                        4E001.b.1.
          c.     "Technology" for the "development" of "intrusion software".
                 Note 1: 4E001.a. and 4E001.c. do not control "vulnerability disclosure" or "cyber incident
                         response".
                 Note 2: Note 1 does not diminish the rights of the competent authority of the EU Member State
                         in which the exporter is established to ascertain compliance with 4E001.a. and
                         4E001.c.

                         142

                                                                                                                     143

5A001   Telecommunications systems, equipment, components and accessories as follows:
        a.    Any type of telecommunications equipment having any of the following characteristics,
              functions or features:
              1.     Specially designed to withstand transitory electronic effects or electromagnetic pulse
                     effects, both arising from a nuclear explosion;
              2.     Specially hardened to withstand gamma, neutron or ion radiation;
              3.     Specially designed to operate below 218 K (-55°C); or
              4.     Specially designed to operate above 397 K (124°C);
                     Note 1:   5A001.a.3. and 5A001.a.4. control only electronic equipment.
                     Note 2:    5A001.a.2., 5A001.a.3. and 5A001.a.4. do not control equipment designed or
                                modified for use on board satellites.
        b.    Telecommunication systems and equipment, and specially designed components and accessories
              therefor, having any of the following characteristics, functions or features:
              1.     Being underwater untethered communications systems having any of the following:
                     a.     An acoustic carrier frequency outside the range from 20 kHz to 60 kHz;
                     b.     Using an electromagnetic carrier frequency below 30 kHz;
                     c.     Using electronic beam steering techniques; or
                     d.     Using "lasers" or light-emitting diodes (LEDs) with an output wavelength greater
                            than 400 nm and less than 700 nm, in a "local area network";
              2.     Being radio equipment operating in the 1,5 MHz to 87,5 MHz band and having all of the
                     following:
                     a.     Automatically predicting and selecting frequencies and "total digital transfer rates"
                            per channel to optimise the transmission; and
                     b.     Incorporating a linear power amplifier configuration having a capability to support
                            multiple signals simultaneously at an output power of 1 kW or more in the
                            frequency range of 1,5 MHz or more but less than 30 MHz, or 250 W or more in
                            the frequency range of 30 MHz or more but not exceeding 87,5 MHz, over an
                            "instantaneous bandwidth" of one octave or more and with an output harmonic and
                            distortion content of better than -80 dB;




                                                                                                                    144
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 1

5A001.b.        continued

                3.     Being radio equipment employing "spread spectrum" techniques, including "frequency
                       hopping" techniques, other than those specified in 5A001.b.4. and having any of the
                       following:
                       a.     User programmable spreading codes; or
                       b.     A total transmitted bandwidth which is 100 or more times the bandwidth of any
                              one information channel and in excess of 50 kHz;
                              Note: 5A001.b.3.b. does not control radio equipment specially designed for use
                                    with any of the following:
                                                 a. Civil cellular radio-communications systems; or
                                                 b. Fixed or mobile satellite earth stations for commercial civil
                                                 telecommunications.
                       Note: 5A001.b.3 does not control equipment designed to operate at an output power of
                             1 W or less.
                4.     Being radio equipment employing ultra-wideband modulation techniques, having user
                       programmable channelising codes, scrambling codes or network identification codes and
                       having any of the following:
                       a.     A bandwidth exceeding 500 MHz; or
                       b.     A "fractional bandwidth" of 20% or more;
                5.     Being digitally controlled radio receivers having all of the following:
                       a.     More than 1 000 channels;
                       b.     A 'channel switching time' of less than 1 ms;
                       c.     Automatic searching or scanning of a part of the electromagnetic spectrum; and
                       d.     Identification of the received signals or the type of transmitter; or
                       Note: 5A001.b.5. does not control radio equipment specially designed for use with civil
                             cellular radio-communications systems.
                       Technical Note:
                       'Channel switching time' means the time (i.e., delay) to change from one receiving
                       frequency to another, to arrive at or within ±0,05% of the final specified receiving
                       frequency. Items having a specified frequency range of less than ±0,05% around their
                       centre frequency are defined to be incapable of channel frequency switching.
                6.     Employing functions of digital "signal processing" to provide 'voice coding' output at
                       rates of less than 700 bit/s.
                       Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For variable rate 'voice coding', 5A001.b.6. applies to the 'voice coding' output of
                                          continuous speech.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 5A001.b.6., 'voice coding' is defined as the technique to take
                                          samples of human voice and then convert these samples into a digital signal,
                                          taking into account specific characteristics of human speech.
           c.   Optical fibres of more than 500 m in length and specified by the manufacturer as being capable
                of withstanding a 'proof test' tensile stress of 2 x 109 N/m2 or more;
                N.B. For underwater umbilical cables, see 8A002.a.3.




                                                                                                                    145
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 1

5A001.c.continued

               Technical Note:
               'Proof Test': on-line or off-line production screen testing that dynamically applies a prescribed
               tensile stress over a 0,5 to 3 m length of fibre at a running rate of 2 to 5 m/s while passing
               between capstans approximately 150 mm in diameter. The ambient temperature is a nominal 293
               K (20oC) and relative humidity 40%. Equivalent national standards may be used for executing
               the proof test.
         d.    'Electronically steerable phased array antennae' as follows:
               1.     Rated for operation above 31,8 GHz, but not exceeding 57 GHz, and having an Effective
                      Radiated Power (ERP) equal to or greater than +20 dBm (22,15 dBm Effective Isotropic
                      Radiated Power (EIRP));
               2.     Rated for operation above 57 GHz, but not exceeding 66 GHz, and having an ERP equal
                      to or greater than +24 dBm (26,15 dBm EIRP);
               3.     Rated for operation above 66 GHz, but not exceeding 90 GHz, and having an ERP equal
                      to or greater than +20 dBm (22,15 dBm EIRP);
               4.     Rated for operation above 90 GHz;
               Note 1:       5A001.d. does not control 'electronically steerable phased array antennae' for
                             landing systems with instruments meeting ICAO standards covering Microwave
                             Landing Systems (MLS).
               Note 2:       5A001.d. does not control antennae specially designed for any of the following:
                                          a.    Civil cellular or WLAN radio-communications systems;
                                          b.    IEEE 802.15 or wireless HDMI; or
                                          c.    Fixed or mobile satellite earth stations for commercial civil
                                                 telecommunications.
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 5A001.d. 'electronically steerable phased array antenna' is an antenna
               which forms a beam by means of phase coupling, (i.e., the beam direction is controlled by the
               complex excitation coefficients of the radiating elements) and the direction of that beam can be
               varied (both in transmission and reception) in azimuth or in elevation, or both, by application
               of an electrical signal.
         e.    Radio direction finding equipment operating at frequencies above 30 MHz and having all of the
               following, and specially designed components therefor:
               1.     "Instantaneous bandwidth" of 10 MHz or more; and
               2.     Capable of finding a Line Of Bearing (LOB) to non-cooperating radio transmitters with
                      a signal duration of less than 1 ms;
         f.    Mobile telecommunications interception or jamming equipment, and monitoring equipment
               therefor, as follows, and specially designed components therefor:
               1.     Interception equipment designed for the extraction of voice or data, transmitted over the
                      air interface;
               2.     Interception equipment not specified in 5A001.f.1., designed for the extraction of client
                      device or subscriber identifiers (e.g., IMSI, TIMSI or IMEI), signalling, or other metadata
                      transmitted over the air interface;
               3.     Jamming equipment specially designed or modified to intentionally and selectively
                      interfere with, deny, inhibit, degrade or seduce mobile telecommunication services and
                      performing any of the following:
                      a.     Simulate the functions of Radio Access Network (RAN) equipment;
                      b.     Detect and exploit specific characteristics of the mobile telecommunications
                             protocol employed (e.g., GSM); or
                      c.     Exploit specific characteristics of the mobile telecommunications protocol
                           employed (e.g. GSM);
                4.     RF monitoring equipment designed or modified to identify the operation of items
                    specified in 5A001.f.1., 5A001.f.2. or 5A001.f.3.;
                Note: 5A001.f.1. and 5A001.f.2. do not control any of the following:
                                          a.    Equipment specially designed for the interception of analogue Private Mobile
                                                 Radio (PMR), IEEE 802.11 WLAN;
                                          b.    Equipment designed for mobile telecommunications network operators; or
                                          c.    Equipment designed for the "development" or "production" of mobile
                                                 telecommunications equipment or systems.
                N.B.1. SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
                N.B.2. For radio receivers see 5A001.b.5.
        g.   Passive Coherent Location (PCL) systems or equipment, specially designed for detecting and
             tracking moving objects by measuring reflections of ambient radio frequency emissions,
             supplied by non-radar transmitters;
              Technical Note:
              Non-radar transmitters may include commercial radio, television or cellular telecommunications base stations.
              Note: 5A001.g. does not control any of the following:
                                          a.    Radio-astronomical equipment; or
                                          b.    Systems or equipment, that require any radio transmission from the target.
        h.   Counter Improvised Explosive Device (IED) equipment and related equipment, as follows:
              1.     Radio Frequency (RF) transmitting equipment, not specified in 5A001.f., designed or
                     modified for prematurely activating or preventing the initiation of Improvised Explosive
                     Devices (IEDs);
              2.     Equipment using techniques designed to enable radio communications in the same
                     frequency channels on which co-located equipment specified in 5A001.h.1. is
                     transmitting;
              N.B.   SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        i.   Not used;
        j.   Internet Protocol (IP) network communications surveillance systems or equipment, and specially
             designed components therefor, having all of the following:
              1.     Performing all of the following on a carrier class Internet Protocol (IP) network (e.g.,
                     national grade IP backbone):
                     a.     Analysis at the application layer (e.g., Layer 7 of Open Systems Interconnection
                            (OSI) model (ISO/IEC 7498-1));
                     b.     Extraction of selected metadata and application content (e.g., voice, video,
                            messages, attachments); and
                     c.     Indexing of extracted data; and
              2.     Being specially designed to carry out all of the following:
                     a.     Execution of searches on the basis of "hard selectors"; and
                     b.     Mapping of the relational network of an individual or of a group of people.
              Note: 5A001.j. does not control systems or equipment, specially designed for any of the
                     following:
                                                 a.     Marketing purpose;
                                                 b.   Network Quality of Service (QoS); or
                                                 c.   Quality of Experience (QoE).




                                                                    148
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 1

5A101   Telemetry and telecontrol equipment, including ground equipment, designed or modified for 'missiles'.
        Technical Note:
        In 5A101 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
        Note: 5A101 does not control:
                                                 a.    Equipment designed or modified for manned aircraft or satellites;
                                                 b.    Ground based equipment designed or modified for terrestrial or marine applications;
                                                 c.    Equipment designed for commercial, civil or ‘Safety of Life’ (e.g., data integrity, flight
                                                 safety) GNSS services;
5B1     Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
5B001   Telecommunications test, inspection and production equipment, components and accessories, as
        follows:
        a.     Equipment and specially designed components or accessories therefor, specially designed for the
               "development" or "production" of equipment, functions or features, specified in 5A001;
               Note: 5B001.a. does not control optical fibre characterization equipment.
        b.     Equipment and specially designed components or accessories therefor, specially designed for the
               "development" of any of the following telecommunication transmission or switching equipment:
               1.     Not used;
               2.     Equipment employing a "laser" and having any of the following:
                      a.     A transmission wavelength exceeding 1 750 nm; or
                      b.     Not used;
                      c.     Not used;
                      d.     Employing analogue techniques and having a bandwidth exceeding 2,5 GHz; or
                             Note: 5B001.b.2.d. does not control equipment specially designed for the
                                   "development" of commercial TV systems.
               3.     Not used;
               4.     Radio equipment employing Quadrature-Amplitude-Modulation (QAM) techniques
                      above level 1 024;
               5.     Not used.

5D1     Software
5D001   "Software" as follows:
        a.     "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of
               equipment, functions or features, specified in 5A001;
        b.     Not used;
        c.     Specific "software" specially designed or modified to provide characteristics, functions or
               features of equipment, specified in 5A001 or 5B001;
        d.     "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" of any of the following
               telecommunication transmission or switching equipment:
               1.     Not used;
               2.     Equipment employing a "laser" and having any of the following:


                                                                                                                 149
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 1

                     a.     A transmission wavelength exceeding 1 750 nm; or
5D001 continued

                     b.     Employing analogue techniques and having a bandwidth exceeding 2,5 GHz; or
                            Note: 5D001.d.2.b. does not control "software" specially designed or modified
                                  for the "development" of commercial TV systems.
              3.     Not used;
              4.     Radio equipment employing Quadrature-Amplitude-Modulation (QAM) techniques
                     above level 1 024.
        e.    "Software", other than that specified in 5D001.a. or 5D001.c., specially designed or modified for
              monitoring or analysis by law enforcement, providing all of the following:
              1.     Execution of searches on the basis of "hard selectors" of either the content of
                     communication or metadata acquired from a communications service provider using a
                     'handover interface'; and
              2.     Mapping of the relational network or tracking the movement of targeted individuals based
                     on the results of searches on content of communication or metadata or searches as
                     described in 5D001.e.1.
              Technical Notes:
                                          1.    For the purposes of 5D001.e., a 'handover interface' is a physical and logical interface,
                                          designed for use by an authorised law enforcement authority, across which targeted
                                          interception measures are requested from a communications service provider and the
                                          results of interception are delivered from a communications service provider to the
                                          requesting authority. The 'handover interface' is implemented within systems or
                                          equipment (e.g., mediation devices) that receive and validate the interception request,
                                          and deliver to the requesting authority only the results of interception that fulfil the
                                          validated request.
                                          2.    'Handover interfaces' may be specified by international standards (including but not
                                          limited to ETSI TS 101 331, ETSI TS 101 671, 3GPP TS 33.108) or national equivalents.
                                          Note: 5D001.e. does not control "software" specially designed or modified for any of the
                                          following:
                                                               a.     Billing purposes;
                                                               b.     Network Quality of Service (QoS);
                                                               c.     Quality of Experience (QoE);
                                                               d.     Mediation devices; or
                                                               e.     Mobile payment or banking use.

5D101   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of equipment specified in 5A101.


5E1     Technology
5E001   "Technology" as follows:
        a.    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development", "production"
              or "use" (excluding operation) of equipment, functions or features specified in 5A001 or
              "software" specified in 5D001.a. or 5D001.e.;
        b.    Specific "technology" as follows:
              1.     "Technology" "required" for the "development" or "production" of telecommunications
                     equipment specially designed to be used on board satellites;
              2.     "Technology" for the "development" or "use" of "laser" communication techniques with
                     the capability of automatically acquiring and tracking signals and maintaining
                     communications through exoatmosphere or sub-surface (water) media;



                                                                                                                  150
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 1

               3.    "Technology" for the "development" of digital cellular radio base station receiving
                     equipment whose reception capabilities that allow multi-band, multi-channel, multi-
                     mode, multi-coding algorithm or multi-protocol operation can be modified by changes in
                     "software";
5E001   continued

               4.    "Technology" for the "development" of "spread spectrum" techniques, including
                     "frequency hopping" techniques;
                     Note: 5E001.b.4. does not control "technology" for the "development" of any of the
                           following:
                                                 a.     Civil cellular radio-communications systems; or
                                                 b.     Fixed or mobile satellite earth stations for commercial civil telecommunications.
         c.    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production"
               of any of the following:
               1.    Not used;
               2.    Equipment employing a "laser" and having any of the following:
                     a.     A transmission wavelength exceeding 1 750 nm; or
                     b.     Not used;
                     c.     Not used;
                     d.     Employing wavelength division multiplexing techniques of optical carriers at less
                            than 100 GHz spacing; or
                     e.     Employing analogue techniques and having a bandwidth exceeding 2,5 GHz;
                            Note: 5E001.c.2.e. does not control "technology" for commercial TV systems.
                     N.B.   For "technology" for the "development" or "production"                       of   non-
                            telecommunications equipment employing a laser, see 6E.
               3.    Equipment employing "optical switching" and having a switching time less than 1 ms;
               4.    Radio equipment having any of the following:
                     a.     Quadrature-Amplitude-Modulation (QAM) techniques above level 1 024;
                     b.     Operating at input or output frequencies exceeding 31,8 GHz; or
                            Note: 5E001.c.4.b. does not control "technology" for equipment designed or
                                  modified for operation in any frequency band which is "allocated by the
                                  ITU" for radio-communications services, but not for radio-determination.
                     c.     Operating in the 1,5 MHz to 87,5 MHz band and incorporating adaptive techniques
                            providing more than 15 dB suppression of an interfering signal; or
               5.    Not used;
               6.    Mobile equipment having all of the following:
                     a.     Operating at an optical wavelength greater than or equal to 200 nm and less than
                            or equal to 400 nm; and
                     b.     Operating as a "local area network";
         d.    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production"
               of "Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuit" ("MMIC") amplifiers specially designed for
               telecommunications and that are any of the following:
               Technical Note:
               For purposes of 5E001.d., the parameter peak saturated power output may also be referred to
               on product data sheets as output power, saturated power output, maximum power output, peak
               power output, or peak envelope power output.


                                                                                                                      151
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 1

              1.     Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz with
                     a "fractional bandwidth" greater than 15%, and having any of the following:
                     a.     A peak saturated power output greater than 75 W (48,75 dBm) at any frequency
                            exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 2,9 GHz;


5E001         continued

                     b.     A peak saturated power output greater than 55 W (47,4 dBm) at any frequency
                            exceeding 2,9 GHz up to and including 3,2 GHz;
                     c.     A peak saturated power output greater than 40 W (46 dBm) at any frequency
                            exceeding 3,2 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; or
                     d.     A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (43 dBm) at any frequency
                            exceeding 3,7 GHz up to and including 6,8 GHz;
              2.     Rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 16 GHz with a
                     "fractional bandwidth" greater than 10%, and having any of the following:
                     a.     A peak saturated power output greater than 10W (40 dBm) at any frequency
                            exceeding 6,8 GHz up to and including 8,5 GHz; or
                     b.     A peak saturated power output greater than 5W (37 dBm) at any frequency
                            exceeding 8,5 GHz up to and including 16 GHz;
              3.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 3 W (34,77 dBm) at
                     any frequency exceeding 16 GHz up to and including 31,8 GHz, and with a "fractional
                     bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
              4.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,1 nW (-70 dBm) at
                     any frequency exceeding 31,8 GHz up to and including 37 GHz;
              5.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 1 W (30 dBm) at any
                     frequency exceeding 37 GHz up to and including 43,5 GHz, and with a "fractional
                     bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
              6.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 31,62 mW (15 dBm)
                     at any frequency exceeding 43,5 GHz up to and including 75 GHz, and with a "fractional
                     bandwidth" of greater than 10%;
              7.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 10 mW (10 dBm) at
                     any frequency exceeding 75 GHz up to and including 90 GHz, and with a "fractional
                     bandwidth" of greater than 5%; or
              8.     Rated for operation with a peak saturated power output greater than 0,1 nW (-70 dBm) at
                     any frequency exceeding 90 GHz;
        e.    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production"
              of electronic devices and circuits, specially designed for telecommunications and containing
              components manufactured from "superconductive" materials, specially designed for operation at
              temperatures below the "critical temperature" of at least one of the "superconductive"
              constituents and having any of the following:
              1.     Current switching for digital circuits using "superconductive" gates with a product of
                     delay time per gate (in seconds) and power dissipation per gate (in watts) of less than 10-
                     14
                        J; or
              2.     Frequency selection at all frequencies using resonant circuits with Q-values exceeding 10
                     000.
5E101   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development", "production" or "use"
        of equipment specified in 5A101.


5A002   "Information security" systems, equipment and components, as follows:
        N.B.   For the control of "satellite navigation system" receiving equipment containing or employing
               decryption, see 7A005 and for related decryption "software" and "technology" see 7D005 and
               7E001.
        a.     Designed or modified to use 'cryptography for data confidentiality' having a 'described security
               algorithm', where that cryptographic capability is usable, has been activated, or can be activated
               by any means other than secure "cryptographic activation", as follows:
               1.     Items having "information security" as a primary function;
               2.     Digital communication or networking systems, equipment or components, not specified
                      in 5A002.a.1.;
               3.     Computers, other items having information storage or processing as a primary function,
                      and components therefor, not specified in 5A002.a.1. or 5A002.a.2.;
                      N.B.   For operating systems, see also 5D002.a.1. and 5D002.c.1.
               4.     Items, not specified in 5A002.a.1. to 5A002.a.3., where the 'cryptography for data
                      confidentiality' having a 'described security algorithm' meets all of the following:
                     a.     It supports a non-primary function of the item; and
                     b.     It is performed by incorporated equipment or "software" that would, as a
                            standalone item, be specified in Category 5 – Part 2.
              Technical Notes:
                                   1.     For the purposes of 5A002.a., 'cryptography for data confidentiality' means
                                          "cryptography" that employs digital techniques and performs any cryptographic function
                                          other than any of the following:
                                          a.     "Authentication";
                                          b.     Digital signature;
                                          c.     Data integrity;
                                          d.     Non-repudiation;
                                          e.     Digital rights management, including the execution of copy-protected "software";
                                          f.     Encryption or decryption in support of entertainment, mass commercial
                                                 broadcasts or medical records management; or
                                          g.     Key management in support of any function described in paragraph a. to f. above.
                                   2.     For the purposes of 5A002.a., 'described security algorithm' means any of the following:
                                          a.     A "symmetric algorithm" employing a key length in excess of 56 bits, not including
                                                 parity bits;
                                          b.     An "asymmetric algorithm" where the security of the algorithm is based on any of
                                                 the following:
                                                 1.      Factorisation of integers in excess of 512 bits (e.g., RSA);
                                                 2.      Computation of discrete logarithms in a multiplicative group of a finite
                                                        field of size greater than 512 bits (e.g., Diffie-Hellman over Z/pZ); or

                                                 3.    Discrete logarithms in a group other than mentioned in paragraph b.2. in excess of 112 bits (e.g., Diffie-Hellman over an elliptic curve); or
                                          c.    An "asymmetric algorithm" where the security of the algorithm is based on any of
                                          the following:
                                                 1.    Shortest vector or closest vector problems associated with lattices (e.g.,
                                                        NewHope, Frodo, NTRUEncrypt, Kyber, Titanium);
                                                 2.    Finding isogenies between Supersingular               elliptic     curves   (e.g.,
                                                        Supersingular Isogeny Key Encapsulation); or
                                                 3.    Decoding random codes (e.g., McEliece, Niederreiter).
                                          Technical Note:
                                          An algorithm described by Technical Note 2.c. may be referred to as being post-
                                          quantum, quantum-safe or quantum-resistant.


              Note 1:     When necessary as determined by the appropriate authority in the exporter's
                            country, details of items must be accessible and provided to the authority upon
                            request, in order to establish any of the following:
                                          a.    Whether the item meets the criteria of 5A002.a.1. to 5A002.a.4.; or
                                          b.    Whether the cryptographic capability for data confidentiality specified in
                                                 5A002.a. is usable without "cryptographic activation".
              Note 2:     5A002.a. does not control any of the following items, or specially designed
                       "information security" components therefor:
                                   a.    Smart cards and smart card 'readers/writers' as follows:
                                          1.     A smart card or an electronically readable personal document (e.g.,
                                                 token coin, e-passport) that meets any of the following:
                                                 a. The cryptographic capability meets all of the following:
                                                 1. It is restricted for use in any of the following:
                                                        a. Equipment or systems not described by 5A002.a.1. to
                                                        5A002.a.4.;
                                                        b. Equipment or systems not using 'cryptography for data
                                                        confidentiality' having a 'described security algorithm';
                                                        or
                                                        c. Equipment or systems, excluded from 5A002.a., by
                                                        paragraphs b. to f. of this Note; and
                                                 2. It cannot be reprogrammed for any other use; or:
                                                 b. Having all of the following:
                                                 1. It is specially designed and limited to allow protection of
                                                        'personal data' stored within;
                                                 2. Has been, or can only be, personalised for public or
                                                        commercial transactions or individual identification; and
                                                 3. Where the cryptographic capability is not user-accessible;
                                                 Technical Note:
                                                 'Personal data' includes any data specific to a particular person
                                                 or entity, such as the amount of money stored and data necessary
                                                 for "authentication".

                                          2.     'Readers/writers' specially designed or modified, and limited, for
                                                 items specified in paragraph a.1. of this Note.
                                                 Technical Note:
                                                 'Readers/writers' include equipment that communicates with smart
                                                 cards or electronically readable documents through a network.
                                   b.      Cryptographic equipment specially designed and limited for banking use
                                          or 'money transactions';
                                          Technical Note:
                                          'Money transactions' in 5A002.a. Note 2.b. includes the collection and
                                          settlement of fares or credit functions.
                                   c.      Portable or mobile radiotelephones for civil use (e.g., for use with
                                          commercial civil cellular radio communication systems) that are not
                                          capable of transmitting encrypted data directly to another radiotelephone
                                          or equipment (other than Radio Access Network (RAN) equipment), nor of
                                          passing encrypted data through RAN equipment (e.g., Radio Network
                                          Controller (RNC) or Base Station Controller (BSC));
                                   d.      Cordless telephone equipment not capable of end-to-end encryption where
                                          the maximum effective range of unboosted cordless operation (i.e. a single,
                                          unrelayed hop between terminal and home base station) is less than
                                          400 metres according to the manufacturer's specifications;
                                   e.      Portable or mobile radiotelephones and similar client wireless devices for
                                          civil use, that implement only published or commercial cryptographic
                                          standards (except for anti-piracy functions, which may be non-published)
                                          and also meet the provisions of paragraphs a.2. to a.4. of the Cryptography
                                          Note (Note 3 in Category 5, Part 2), that have been customised for a
                                          specific civil industry application with features that do not affect the
                                          cryptographic functionality of these original non-customised devices;
                                   f.      Items, where the "information security" functionality is limited to wireless
                                          "personal area network" functionality, implementing only published or
                                          commercial cryptographic standards;
                                   g.      Mobile telecommunications Radio Access Network (RAN) equipment
                                          designed for civil use, which also meet the provisions of paragraphs a.2. to
                                          a.4. of the Cryptography Note (Note 3 in Category 5, Part 2), having an RF
                                          output power limited to 0,1W (20 dBm) or less, and supporting 16 or fewer
                                          concurrent users;
                                   h.      Routers, switches, gateways or relays, where the "information security"
                                          functionality is limited to the tasks of "Operations, Administration or
                                          Maintenance" ("OAM") implementing only published or commercial
                                          cryptographic standards; or
                                   i.      General purpose computing equipment or servers, where the "information
                                          security" functionality meets all of the following:
                                          1.     Uses only published or commercial cryptographic standards; and
                                          2.     Is any of the following:
                                                 a. Integral to a CPU that meets the provisions of Note 3 to
                                                        Category 5–Part 2;
                                                 b. Integral to an operating system that is not specified in 5D002;
                                                        or

                                                 c. Limited to "OAM" of the equipment.
                                          j.     Items specially designed for a 'connected civil industry application',
                                                 meeting all of the following:
                                                 1.     Being any of the following:
                                                        a. A network-capable endpoint device meeting any of the
                                                        following:
                                                        1. The "information security" functionality is limited to
                                                               securing 'non-arbitrary data' or the tasks of "Operations,
                                                               Administration or Maintenance" ("OAM"); or
                                                        2. The device is limited to a specific 'connected civil industry
                                                               application'; or
                                                        b. Networking equipment meeting all of the following:
                                                        1. Being specially designed to communicate with the devices
                                                               specified in paragraph j.1.a. above; and
                                                        2. The "information security" functionality is limited to
                                                               supporting the 'connected civil industry application' of
                                                               devices specified in paragraph j.1.a. above, or the tasks of
                                                               "OAM" of this networking equipment or of other items
                                                               specified in paragraph j. of this Note; and
                                                 2.     Where the "information security" functionality implements only
                                                        published or commercial cryptographic standards, and the
                                                        cryptographic functionality cannot easily be changed by the user.
                                                 Technical Notes:
                                                 1.     'Connected civil industry application' means a network connected
                                                        consumer or civil industry application other than "information
                                                        security", digital communication, general purpose networking or
                                                        computing.
                                                 2.     'Non-arbitrary data' means sensor or metering data directly related
                                                        to the stability, performance or physical measurement of a system
                                                        (e.g., temperature, pressure, flow rate, mass, volume, voltage,
                                                        physical location etc.), that cannot be changed by the user of the
                                                        device.
         b.    Being a 'cryptographic activation token';
               Technical Note:
               A 'cryptographic activation token' is an item designed or modified for any of the following:
                                   1.     Converting, by means of "cryptographic activation", an item not specified in Category 5
                                          – Part 2 into an item specified in 5A002.a. or 5D002.c.1., and not released by the
                                          Cryptography Note (Note 3 in Category 5 – Part 2); or
                                   2.     Enabling, by means of "cryptographic activation", additional functionality specified in
                                          5A002.a. of an item already specified in Category 5 – Part 2.
         c.    Designed or modified to use or perform "quantum cryptography";
               Technical Note:
               "Quantum cryptography" is also known as Quantum Key Distribution (QKD).
         d.    Designed or modified to use cryptographic techniques to generate channelising codes,
               scrambling codes or network identification codes, for systems using ultra-wideband modulation
               techniques and having any of the following:
               1.     A bandwidth exceeding 500 MHz; or
               2.     A "fractional bandwidth" of 20% or more;
         e.    Designed or modified to use cryptographic techniques to generate the spreading code for "spread
               spectrum" systems, other than those specified in 5A002.d., including the hopping code for
               "frequency hopping" systems.


                                                                                                                 157
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 2

5A003   Systems, equipment and components, for non-cryptographic "information security", as follows:
        a.      Communications cable systems designed or modified using mechanical, electrical or electronic
                means to detect surreptitious intrusion;
                Note: 5A003.a. only controls physical layer security. For the purpose of 5A003.a., the physical
                      layer includes Layer 1 of the Reference Model of Open Systems Interconnection (OSI)
                      (ISO/IEC 7498-1).
        b.      Specially designed or modified to reduce the compromising emanations of information-bearing
                signals beyond what is necessary for health, safety or electromagnetic interference standards.

5A004   Systems, equipment and components for defeating, weakening or bypassing "information security", as
        follows:
        a.      Designed or modified to perform 'cryptanalytic functions'.
                Note: 5A004.a. includes systems or equipment, designed or modified to perform 'cryptanalytic
                      functions' by means of reverse engineering.
                Technical Note:
                'Cryptanalytic functions' are functions designed to defeat cryptographic mechanisms in order to
                derive confidential variables or sensitive data, including clear text, passwords or cryptographic
                keys.
        b.      Items, not specified in 4A005 or 5A004.a., designed to perform all of the following:
                1.       'Extract raw data' from a computing or communications device; and
                2.       Circumvent "authentication" or authorisation controls of the device, in order to perform
                         the function described in 5A004.b.1.
                Technical Note:
                'Extract raw data' from a computing or communications device means to retrieve binary data
                from a storage medium (e.g., RAM, flash or hard disk) of the device without interpretation by
                the device’s operating system or filesystem.
                Note1:      5A004.b. does not control systems or equipment specially designed for the
                            "development" or "production" of a computing or communications device.
                Note:       5A004.b. does not include:
                                          a.    Debuggers, hypervisors;
                                          b.    Items limited to logical data extraction;
                                          c.    Data extraction items using chip-off or JTAG; or
                                          d.    Items specially designed and limited to jail-breaking or rooting.

5B2     Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
5B002   "Information security" test, inspection and "production" equipment, as follows:
        a.      Equipment specially designed for the "development" or "production" of equipment specified in
                5A002, 5A003, 5A004 or 5B002.b.;
        b.      Measuring equipment specially designed to evaluate and validate the "information security"
                functions of the equipment specified in 5A002, 5A003 or 5A004, or of "software" specified in
                5D002.a. or 5D002.c.

                                                                                                                    158
CATEGORY 5 - TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND "INFORMATION SECURITY" PART 2

5D2     Software
5D002   "Software" as follows:
        a.    "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of any
              of the following:
              1.     Equipment specified in 5A002 or "software" specified in 5D002.c.1.;
              2.     Equipment specified in 5A003 or "software" specified in 5D002.c.2.; or
              3.     Equipment or "software", as follows:
                     a.     Equipment specified in 5A004.a. or "software" specified in 5D002.c.3.a.;
                     b.     Equipment specified in 5A004.b. or "software" specified in 5D002.c.3.b.
        b.    "Software" having the characteristics of a 'cryptographic activation token' specified in 5A002.b.;

        c.    "Software" having the characteristics of, or performing or simulating the functions of, any of the
              following:

              1.     Equipment specified in 5A002.a., 5A002.c., 5A002.d. or 5A002.e.;
                     Note: 5D002.c.1. does not control "software" limited to the tasks of "OAM"
                           implementing only published or commercial cryptographic standards.
              2.     Equipment specified in 5A003; or
              3.     Equipment, as follows:
                     a.     Equipment specified in 5A004.a.;
                     b.     Equipment specified in 5A004.b.
                            Note: 5D002.c.3.b. does not control "intrusion software".
        d.    Not used.


5E2     Technology
5E002   "Technology" as follows:
        a.    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development", "production"
              or "use" of equipment specified in 5A002, 5A003, 5A004 or 5B002, or of "software" specified
              in 5D002.a. or 5D002.c.
              Note: 5E002.a. does not control "technology" for items specified in 5A004.b., 5D002.a.3.b. or
                    5D002.c.3.b.
        b.    "Technology" having the characteristics of a 'cryptographic activation token' specified in
              5A002.b.
        Note: 5E002 includes "information security" technical data resulting from procedures carried out to
              evaluate or determine the implementation of functions, features or techniques specified in
              Category 5-Part 2.




                                                                                                                   159
                          CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS


CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS
6A      Systems, Equipment and Components
6A001   Acoustic systems, equipment and components, as follows:
        a.    Marine acoustic systems, equipment and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
              1.     Active (transmitting or transmitting-and-receiving) systems, equipment and specially
                     designed components therefor, as follows:
                     Note: 6A001.a.1. does not control equipment as follows:
                                          a.    Depth sounders operating vertically below the apparatus, not including a
                                                 scanning function exceeding ± 20°, and limited to measuring the depth of
                                                 water, the distance of submerged or buried objects or fish finding;
                                          b.    Acoustic beacons, as follows:
                                                 1.     Acoustic emergency beacons;
                                                 2.     Pingers specially designed for relocating or returning to an
                                                        underwater position.
                     a.     Acoustic seabed survey equipment as follows:
                            1.    Surface vessel survey equipment designed for seabed topographic mapping
                                  and having all of the following:
                                   a.     Designed to take measurements at an angle exceeding 20° from the
                                          vertical;
                                   b.     Designed to measure seabed topography at seabed depths exceeding
                                          600 m;
                                   c.     'Sounding resolution' less than 2; and
                                   d.     'Enhancement' of the depth "accuracy" through compensation for all
                                          the following:
                                                 1.     Motion of the acoustic sensor;
                                                 2.     In-water propagation from sensor to the seabed and back;
                                                        and
                                                 3.     Sound speed at the sensor;
                                  Technical Notes:
                                                 1.    'Sounding resolution' is the swath width (degrees) divided by the
                                                        maximum number of soundings per swath.
                                                 2.    'Enhancement' includes the ability to compensate by external
                                                        means.
                            2.    Underwater survey equipment designed for seabed topographic mapping
                                  and having any of the following:
                                                 Technical Note:
                                                 The acoustic sensor pressure rating determines the depth rating of the
                                                 equipment specified in 6A001.a.1.a.2.
                                                 a.     Having all of the following:
                                                        1.     Designed or modified to operate at depths exceeding 300 m;
                                                               and
                                                        2.     'Sounding rate' greater than 3 800 m/s; or


                                                        Technical Note:
                                                               'Sounding rate' is the product of the maximum speed (m/s) at which
                                                               the sensor can operate and the maximum number of soundings per
                                                               swath assuming 100% coverage. For systems that produce
                                                               soundings in two directions (3D sonars), the maximum of the
                                                               'sounding rate' in either direction should be used.
                                                 b.     Survey equipment, not specified in 6A001.a.1.a.2.a., having all of
                                                        the following:
                                                        1.     Designed or modified to operate at depths exceeding 100 m;
                                                        2.     Designed to take measurements at an angle exceeding 20°
                                                               from the vertical;
                                                        3.     Having any of the following:
                                                               a.     Operating frequency below 350 kHz; or
                                                               b.     Designed to measure seabed topography at a range
                                                                      exceeding 200 m from the acoustic sensor; and
                                                        4.     'Enhancement' of the depth "accuracy"                through
                                                               compensation of all of the following:
                                                               a.     Motion of the acoustic sensor;
                                                               b.     In-water propagation from sensor to the seabed and
                                                                      back; and
                                                               c.     Sound speed at the sensor;
                            3.     Side Scan Sonar (SSS) or Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS), designed for
                                   seabed imaging and having all of the following, and specially designed
                                   transmitting and receiving acoustic arrays therefor:
                                   a.     Designed or modified to operate at depths exceeding 500 m;
                                   b.     An 'area coverage rate' of greater than 570 m 2/s while operating at
                                          the maximum range that it can operate with an 'along track
                                          resolution' of less than 15 cm; and
                                   c.     An 'across track resolution' of less than 15 cm;
                            Technical Notes:
                                          1.    'Area coverage rate' (m2/s) is twice the product of the sonar range (m) and
                                          the maximum speed (m/s) at which the sensor can operate at that range.
                                          2.    'Along track resolution' (cm), for SSS only, is the product of azimuth
                                          (horizontal) beamwidth (degrees) and sonar range (m) and 0,873.
                                          3.    'Across track resolution' (cm) is 75 divided by the signal bandwidth (kHz).
                     b.     Systems or transmitting and receiving arrays, designed for object detection or
                            location, having any of the following:
                            1.     A transmitting frequency below 10 kHz;
                            2.     Sound pressure level exceeding 224 dB (reference 1 µPa at 1 m) for
                                   equipment with an operating frequency in the band from 10 kHz to 24 kHz
                                   inclusive;
                            3.     Sound pressure level exceeding 235 dB (reference 1 µPa at 1 m) for
                                   equipment with an operating frequency in the band between 24 kHz and 30
                                   kHz;
                            4.     Forming beams of less than 1° on any axis and having an operating
                                   frequency of less than 100 kHz;

                            5.     Designed to operate with an unambiguous display range exceeding
                                   5 120 m; or
                            6.     Designed to withstand pressure during normal operation at depths
                                   exceeding 1 000 m and having transducers with any of the following:
                                   a.     Dynamic compensation for pressure; or
                                   b.     Incorporating other than lead zirconate titanate as the transduction
                                          element;
                     c.     Acoustic projectors (including transducers), incorporating piezoelectric,
                            magnetostrictive, electrostrictive, electrodynamic or hydraulic elements operating
                            individually or in a designed combination and having any of the following:
                            Note 1:       The control status of acoustic projectors, including transducers,
                                          specially designed for other equipment not specified in 6A001 is
                                          determined by the control status of the other equipment.
                            Note 2:       6A001.a.1.c. does not control electronic sources which direct the
                                          sound vertically only, or mechanical (e.g., air gun or vapour-shock
                                          gun) or chemical (e.g., explosive) sources.
                            Note 3:       Piezoelectric elements specified in 6A001.a.1.c. include those made
                                          from lead-magnesium-niobate/lead-titanate (Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-
                                          PbTiO3, or PMN-PT) single crystals grown from solid solution or
                                          lead-indium-niobate/lead-magnesium            niobate/lead-titanate
                                          (Pb(In1/2Nb1/2)O3–Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3–PbTiO3, or PIN-PMN-PT)
                                          single crystals grown from solid solution.
                            1.     Operating at frequencies below 10 kHz and having any of the following:
                                   a.     Not designed for continuous operation at 100% duty cycle and
                                          having a radiated 'free-field Source Level (SLRMS)' exceeding
                                          (10log(f) + 169,77) dB (reference 1 µPa at 1 m) where f is the
                                          frequency in Hertz of maximum Transmitting Voltage Response
                                          (TVR) below 10kHz; or
                                   b.     Designed for continuous operation at 100% duty cycle and having a
                                          continuously radiated 'free-field Source Level (SLRMS)' at 100%
                                          duty cycle exceeding (10log(f) + 159,77) dB (reference 1 µPa at 1
                                          m) where f is the frequency in Hertz of maximum Transmitting
                                          Voltage Response (TVR) below 10kHz; or
                                   Technical Note:
                                   The 'free-field Source Level ( SLRMS)' is defined along the maximum
                                   response axis and in the far field of the acoustic projector. It can be
                                   obtained from the Transmitting Voltage Response using the following
                                   equation: SLRMS = (TVR + 20log VRMS) dB (ref 1µPa at 1 m), where SLRMS
                                   is the source level, TVR is the Transmitting Voltage Response and VRMS is
                                   the Driving Voltage of the Projector.
                            2.     Not used;
                            3.     Side-lobe suppression exceeding 22 dB;
                     d.     Acoustic systems and equipment, designed to determine the position of surface
                            vessels or underwater vehicles and having all the following, and specially designed
                            components therefor:
                            1.     Detection range exceeding 1 000 m; and
                            2.     Determined position error of less than 10 m rms (root mean square) when
                                   measured at a range of 1 000 m;


                            Note: 6A001.a.1.d. includes:
                                          a.     Equipment using coherent "signal processing" between two or more
                                                 beacons and the hydrophone unit carried by the surface vessel or
                                                 underwater vehicle;
                                          b.     Equipment capable of automatically correcting speed-of-sound
                                                 propagation errors for calculation of a point.
                     e.     Active individual sonars, specially designed or modified to detect, locate and
                            automatically classify swimmers or divers, having all of the following, and
                            specially designed transmitting and receiving acoustic arrays therefor:
                            1.     Detection range exceeding 530 m;
                            2.     Determined position error of less than 15 m rms (root mean square) when
                                   measured at a range of 530 m; and
                            3.     Transmitted pulse signal bandwidth exceeding 3 kHz;
                            N.B.   For diver detection systems specially designed or modified for military use,
                                   see the Military Goods Controls.
                            Note: For 6A001.a.1.e., where multiple detection ranges are specified for various
                                  environments, the greatest detection range is used.
               2.    Passive systems, equipment and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
                     Note: 6A001.a.2. also controls receiving equipment, whether or not related in normal
                           application to separate active equipment, and specially designed components
                           therefor.
                     a.     Hydrophones having any of the following:
                            Note: The control status of hydrophones specially designed for other equipment
                                  is determined by the control status of the other equipment.
                            Technical Notes:
                                          1.    Hydrophones consist of one or more sensing elements producing a single
                                          acoustic output channel. Those that contain multiple elements can be
                                          referred to as a hydrophone group.
                                          2.     For the purposes of 6A001.a.2.a., underwater acoustic transducers
                                                 designed to operate as passive receivers are hydrophones.
                            1.     Incorporating continuous flexible sensing elements;
                            2.     Incorporating flexible assemblies of discrete sensing elements with either
                                   a diameter or length less than 20 mm and with a separation between
                                   elements of less than 20 mm;
                            3.     Having any of the following sensing elements:
                                   a.     Optical fibres;
                                   b.     'Piezoelectric polymer films' other than polyvinylidene-fluoride
                                          (PVDF) and its co-polymers {P(VDF-TrFE) and P(VDF-TFE)};
                                   c.     'Flexible piezoelectric composites';
                                   d.     Lead-magnesium-niobate/lead-titanate (i.e., Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3-
                                          PbTiO3, or PMN-PT) piezoelectric single crystals grown from solid
                                          solution; or
                                   e.     Lead-indium-niobate/lead-magnesium niobate/lead-titanate (i.e.,
                                          Pb(In1/2Nb1/2)O3–Pb(Mg1/3Nb2/3)O3–PbTiO3, or PIN-PMN-PT)
                                          piezoelectric single crystals grown from solid solution;
                            4.     A 'hydrophone sensitivity' better than -180 dB at any depth with no
                                   acceleration compensation;

                            5.     Designed to operate at depths exceeding 35 m with acceleration
                                   compensation; or



                            6.     Designed for operation at depths exceeding 1 000 m and having a
                                   'hydrophone sensitivity' better than -230 dB below 4 kHz;
                            Technical Notes:
                                          1.    'Piezoelectric polymer film' sensing elements consist of polarised polymer
                                          film that is stretched over and attached to a supporting frame or spool
                                          (mandrel).
                                          2.    'Flexible piezoelectric composite' sensing elements consist of piezoelectric
                                          ceramic particles or fibres combined with an electrically insulating,
                                          acoustically transparent rubber, polymer or epoxy compound, where the
                                          compound is an integral part of the sensing elements.
                                          3.    'Hydrophone sensitivity' is defined as twenty times the logarithm to the base
                                          10 of the ratio of rms output voltage to a 1 V rms reference, when the
                                          hydrophone sensor, without a pre-amplifier, is placed in a plane wave
                                          acoustic field with an rms pressure of 1 µPa. For example, a hydrophone
                                                                                                                       -8
                                          of -160 dB (reference 1 V per µPa) would yield an output voltage of 10 V
                                                                                                                       -9
                                          in such a field, while one of -180 dB sensitivity would yield only 10 V
                                          output. Thus, -160 dB is better than -180 dB.
                     b.     Towed acoustic hydrophone arrays having any of the following:
                            Technical Note:
                            Hydrophone arrays consist of a number of hydrophones providing multiple
                            acoustic output channels.
                            1.     Hydrophone group spacing of less than 12,5 m or 'able to be modified' to
                                   have hydrophone group spacing of less than 12,5 m;
                            2.     Designed or 'able to be modified' to operate at depths exceeding 35 m;
                                   Technical note:
                                   'Able to be modified' in 6A001.a.2.b.1. and 2. means having provisions to
                                   allow a change of the wiring or interconnections to alter hydrophone group
                                   spacing or operating depth limits. These provisions are: spare wiring
                                   exceeding 10% of the number of wires, hydrophone group spacing
                                   adjustment blocks or internal depth limiting devices that are adjustable or
                                   that control more than one hydrophone group.
                            3.     Heading sensors specified in 6A001.a.2.d.;
                            4.     Longitudinally reinforced array hoses;
                            5.     An assembled array of less than 40 mm in diameter;
                            6.     Not used;
                            7.     Hydrophone characteristics specified in 6A001.a.2.a.; or
                            8.     Accelerometer-based hydro-acoustic sensors specified in 6A001.a.2.g.;
                     c.     Processing equipment, specially designed for towed acoustic hydrophone arrays,
                            having "user-accessible programmability" and time or frequency domain
                            processing and correlation, including spectral analysis, digital filtering and
                            beamforming using Fast Fourier or other transforms or processes;
                     d.     Heading sensors having all of the following:
                            1.     An "accuracy" of better than 0,5°; and

                            2.     Designed to operate at depths exceeding 35 m or having an adjustable or
                                   removable depth sensing device in order to operate at depths exceeding
                                   35 m;
                            N.B.   For inertial heading systems, see 7A003.c.
                     e.     Bottom or bay-cable hydrophone arrays, having any of the following:
                            1.     Incorporating hydrophones specified in 6A001.a.2.a.;
                            2.     Incorporating multiplexed hydrophone group signal modules having all of
                                   the following characteristics:
                                   a.     Designed to operate at depths exceeding 35 m or having an
                                          adjustable or removable depth sensing device in order to operate at
                                          depths exceeding 35 m; and
                                   b.     Capable of being operationally interchanged with towed acoustic
                                          hydrophone array modules; or
                            3.     Incorporating accelerometer-based hydro-acoustic sensors specified in
                                   6A001.a.2.g.;
                     f.     Processing equipment, specially designed for bottom or bay cable systems, having
                            "user-accessible programmability" and time or frequency domain processing and
                            correlation, including spectral analysis, digital filtering and beamforming using
                            Fast Fourier or other transforms or processes;
                     g.     Accelerometer-based hydro-acoustic sensors having all of the following:
                            1.     Composed of three accelerometers arranged along three distinct axes;
                            2.     Having an overall 'acceleration sensitivity' better than 48 dB (reference
                                   1 000 mV rms per 1g);
                            3.     Designed to operate at depths greater than 35 meters; and
                            4.     Operating frequency below 20 kHz.
                            Note: 6A001.a.2.g. does not control particle velocity sensors or geophones.
                            Technical Notes:
                                          1.    Accelerometer-based hydro-acoustic sensors are also known as vector
                                          sensors.
                                          2.    'Acceleration sensitivity' is defined as twenty times the logarithm to the
                                          base 10 of the ratio of rms output voltage to a 1 V rms reference, when the
                                          hydro-acoustic sensor, without a preamplifier, is placed in a plane wave
                                          acoustic field with an rms acceleration of 1 g (i.e., 9,81 m/s 2).
         b.    Correlation-velocity and Doppler-velocity sonar log equipment, designed to measure the
               horizontal speed of the equipment carrier relative to the sea bed, as follows:
               1.    Correlation-velocity sonar log equipment having any of the following characteristics:
                     a.     Designed to operate at distances between the carrier and the sea bed exceeding
                            500 m; or
                     b.     Having speed "accuracy" better than 1% of speed;
               2.    Doppler-velocity sonar log equipment having speed "accuracy" better than 1% of speed.
               Note 1:      6A001.b. does not control depth sounders limited to any of the following:
                            a.     Measuring the depth of water;
                            b.     Measuring the distance of submerged or buried objects; or
                            c.     Fish finding.



                Note 2:       6A001.b. does not control equipment specially designed for installation on surface
                              vessels.
         c.     Not used.


6A002    Optical sensors or equipment and components therefor, as follows:
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A102.
         a.     Optical detectors as follows:
                1.     "Space-qualified" solid-state detectors as follows:
                       Note: For the purpose of 6A002.a.1., solid-state detectors include "focal plane arrays".
                       a.     "Space-qualified" solid-state detectors having all of the following:
                              1.     A peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 10 nm but not
                                     exceeding 300 nm; and
                              2.     A response of less than 0,1% relative to the peak response at a wavelength
                                     exceeding 400 nm;
                       b.     "Space-qualified" solid-state detectors having all of the following:
                              1.     A peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 900 nm but not
                                     exceeding 1 200 nm; and
                              2.     A response "time constant" of 95 ns or less;
                       c.     "Space-qualified" solid-state detectors having a peak response in the wavelength
                              range exceeding 1 200 nm but not exceeding 30 000 nm;
                       d.     "Space-qualified" "focal plane arrays" having more than 2 048 elements per array
                              and having a peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 300 nm but not
                              exceeding 900 nm;
                2.     Image intensifier tubes and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
                       Note: 6A002.a.2. does not control non-imaging photomultiplier tubes having an electron
                             sensing device in the vacuum space limited solely to any of the following:
                                          a.     A single metal anode; or
                                          b.     Metal anodes with a centre to centre spacing greater than 500 µm.
                       Technical Note:
                       'Charge multiplication' is a form of electronic image amplification and is defined as the
                       generation of charge carriers as a result of an impact ionization gain process. 'Charge
                       multiplication' sensors may take the form of an image intensifier tube, solid state detector
                       or "focal plane array".
                       a.     Image intensifier tubes having all of the following:
                              1.     A peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 400 nm but not
                                     exceeding 1 050 nm;
                              2.     Electron image amplification using any of the following:
                                     a.      A microchannel plate with a hole pitch (centre-to-centre spacing) of
                                             12 μm or less; or
                                     b.      An electron sensing device with a non-binned pixel pitch of 500 µm
                                             or less, specially designed or modified to achieve 'charge
                                             multiplication' other than by a microchannel plate; and
                              3.     Any of the following photocathodes:
                                     a.      Multialkali photocathodes (e.g., S-20 and S-25) having a luminous
                                             sensitivity exceeding 350 µA/lm;


                                                                                                                      168
                            CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

                                    b.     GaAs or GaInAs photocathodes; or
6A002.a.2.a.   continued

                                    c.     Other "III/V compound" semiconductor photocathodes having a
                                           maximum "radiant sensitivity" exceeding 10 mA/W;
                     b.      Image intensifier tubes having all of the following:
                             1.     A peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 1 050 nm but not
                                    exceeding 1 800 nm;
                             2.     Electron image amplification using any of the following:
                                    a.     A microchannel plate with a hole pitch (centre-to-centre spacing) of
                                           12 µm or less; or
                                    b.     An electron sensing device with a non-binned pixel pitch of 500 µm
                                           or less, specially designed or modified to achieve 'charge
                                           multiplication' other than by a microchannel plate; and
                             3.     "III/V compound" semiconductor (e.g., GaAs or GaInAs) photocathodes
                                    and transferred electron photocathodes, having a maximum "radiant
                                    sensitivity" exceeding 15 mA/W;
                     c.      Specially designed components as follows:
                             1.     Microchannel plates having a hole pitch (centre-to-centre spacing) of
                                    12 µm or less;
                             2.     An electron sensing device with a non-binned pixel pitch of 500 µm or less,
                                    specially designed or modified to achieve 'charge multiplication' other than
                                    by a microchannel plate;
                             3.     "III/V compound" semiconductor (e.g., GaAs or GaInAs) photocathodes
                                    and transferred electron photocathodes;
                                    Note: 6A002.a.2.c.3. does not control compound semiconductor
                                          photocathodes designed to achieve a maximum "radiant sensitivity"
                                          of any of the following:
                                           a.     10 mA/W or less at the peak response in the wavelength
                                                  range exceeding 400 nm but not exceeding 1 050 nm; or
                                           b.     15 mA/W or less at the peak response in the wavelength
                                                  range exceeding 1 050 nm but not exceeding 1 800 nm.
               3.    Non-"space-qualified" "focal plane arrays" as follows:
                     N.B.    'Microbolometer' non-"space-qualified" "focal plane arrays" are only specified in
                             6A002.a.3.f.
                     Technical Note:
                     Linear or two-dimensional multi-element detector arrays are referred to as "focal plane
                     arrays";
                     Note 1:        6A002.a.3. includes photoconductive arrays and photovoltaic arrays.
                     Note 2:        6A002.a.3. does not control:
                                          a.     Multi-element (not to exceed 16 elements) encapsulated
                                                 photoconductive cells using either lead sulphide or lead selenide;
                                          b.     Pyroelectric detectors using any of the following:
                                                 1.    Triglycine sulphate and variants;
                                                 2.    Lead-lanthanum-zirconium titanate and variants;
                                                 3.    Lithium tantalate;
                                                 4.    Polyvinylidene fluoride and variants; or
                                                 5.   Strontium barium niobate and variants;


6A002.a.3.   continued

                                          c.      "Focal plane arrays" specially designed or modified to achieve
                                                 'charge multiplication' and limited by design to have a maximum
                                                 "radiant sensitivity" of 10 mA/W or less for wavelengths exceeding
                                                 760 nm, having all of the following:
                                                 1.     Incorporating a response limiting mechanism designed not
                                                        to be removed or modified; and
                                                 2.     Any of the following:
                                                        a.     The response limiting mechanism is integral to or
                                                               combined with the detector element; or
                                                        b.     The "focal plane array" is only operable with the
                                                               response limiting mechanism in place.
                                          Technical Note:
                                          A response limiting mechanism integral to the detector element is designed
                                          not to be removed or modified without rendering the detector inoperable.
                                                               d.      Thermopile arrays having less than 5 130 elements.
                     Technical Note:
                     'Charge multiplication' is a form of electronic image amplification and is defined as the
                     generation of charge carriers as a result of an impact ionization gain process. 'Charge
                     multiplication' sensors may take the form of an image intensifier tube, solid state detector
                     or "focal plane array".
                     a.     Non-"space-qualified" "focal plane arrays" having all of the following:
                            1.     Individual elements with a peak response within the wavelength range
                                   exceeding 900 nm but not exceeding 1 050 nm; and
                            2.    Any of the following:
                                   a.    A response "time constant" of less than 0,5 ns; or
                                   b.    Specially designed or modified to achieve 'charge multiplication'
                                          and having a maximum "radiant sensitivity" exceeding 10 mA/W;
                     b.     Non-"space-qualified" "focal plane arrays" having all of the following:
                            1.     Individual elements with a peak response in the wavelength range
                                   exceeding 1 050 nm but not exceeding 1 200 nm; and
                            2.     Any of the following:
                                   a.      A response "time constant" of 95 ns or less; or
                                   b.      Specially designed or modified to achieve 'charge multiplication'
                                          and having a maximum "radiant sensitivity" exceeding 10 mA/W;
                     c.     Non-"space-qualified" non-linear (2-dimensional) "focal plane arrays" having
                            individual elements with a peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 1
                            200 nm but not exceeding 30 000 nm;
                            N.B.   Silicon and other material based 'microbolometer' non-"space-qualified"
                                 "focal plane arrays" are only specified in 6A002.a.3.f.




                                                                                                                  171
                          CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6A002.a.3.    continued

                     d.     Non-"space-qualified" linear (1-dimensional) "focal plane arrays" having all of the
                           following:
                            1.     Individual elements with a peak response in the wavelength range
                                  exceeding 1 200 nm but not exceeding 3 000 nm; and
                            2.     Any of the following:
                                   a.    A ratio of 'scan direction' dimension of the detector element to the
                                        'cross-scan direction' dimension of the detector element of less than
                                        3,8; or
                                   b.    Signal processing in the detector elements;
                            Note: 6A002.a.3.d. does not control "focal plane arrays" (not to exceed 32
                                 elements) having detector elements limited solely to germanium material.
                           Technical Note:
                           For the purposes of 6A002.a.3.d., 'cross-scan direction' is defined as the axis
                           parallel to the linear array of detector elements and the 'scan direction' is defined
                           as the axis perpendicular to the linear array of detector elements.
                     e.     Non-"space-qualified" linear (1-dimensional) "focal plane arrays" having
                           individual elements with a peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 3
                           000 nm but not exceeding 30 000 nm;
                     f.     Non-"space-qualified" non-linear (2-dimensional) infrared "focal plane arrays"
                           based on 'microbolometer' material having individual elements with an unfiltered
                           response in the wavelength range equal to or exceeding 8 000 nm but not
                           exceeding 14 000 nm;
                           Technical Note:
                           For the purposes of 6A002.a.3.f., 'microbolometer' is defined as a thermal imaging
                           detector that, as a result of a temperature change in the detector caused by the
                           absorption of infrared radiation, is used to generate any usable signal.
                    g.     Non-"space-qualified" "focal plane arrays" having all of the following:
                            1.     Individual detector elements with a peak response in the wavelength range
                                   exceeding 400 nm but not exceeding 900 nm;
                            2.     Specially designed or modified to achieve 'charge multiplication' and
                                   having a maximum "radiant sensitivity" exceeding 10 mA/W for
                                   wavelengths exceeding 760 nm; and
                            3.     Greater than 32 elements;
         b.   "Monospectral imaging sensors" and "multispectral imaging sensors", designed for remote
              sensing applications and having any of the following:
              1.    An Instantaneous-Field-Of-View (IFOV) of less than 200 µrad (microradians); or
              2.    Specified for operation in the wavelength range exceeding 400 nm but not exceeding 30
                    000 nm and having all the following;
                     a.     Providing output imaging data in digital format; and
                     b.     Having any of the following characteristics:
                            1.     "Space-qualified"; or
                            2.     Designed for airborne operation, using other than silicon detectors, and
                                   having an IFOV of less than 2,5 mrad (milliradians);




                                                                                                                   172
                            CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6A002.b.        continued

                Note: 6A002.b.1. does not control "monospectral imaging sensors" with a peak response in the
                      wavelength range exceeding 300 nm but not exceeding 900 nm and only incorporating
                      any of the following non–"space-qualified" detectors or non–"space-qualified" "focal
                      plane arrays":
                                          1.     Charge Coupled Devices (CCD) not designed or modified to achieve 'charge
                                                 multiplication'; or
                                          2.     Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) devices not designed or
                                                 modified to achieve 'charge multiplication'.
           c.   'Direct view' imaging equipment incorporating any of the following:
                1.     Image intensifier tubes specified in 6A002.a.2.a. or 6A002.a.2.b.;
                2.     "Focal plane arrays" specified in 6A002.a.3.; or
                3.     Solid state detectors specified in 6A002.a.1.;
                Technical Note:
                'Direct view' refers to imaging equipment that presents a visual image to a human observer
                without converting the image into an electronic signal for television display, and that cannot
                record or store the image photographically, electronically or by any other means.
                Note: 6A002.c. does not control equipment as follows, when incorporating other than GaAs or
                      GaInAs photocathodes:
                                          a.    Industrial or civilian intrusion alarm, traffic or industrial movement control or
                                                 counting systems;
                                          b.    Medical equipment;
                                          c.    Industrial equipment used for inspection, sorting or analysis of the properties of
                                                 materials;
                                          d.    Flame detectors for industrial furnaces;
                                          e.    Equipment specially designed for laboratory use.
           d.   Special support components for optical sensors, as follows:
                1.     "Space-qualified" cryocoolers;
                2.     Non-"space-qualified" cryocoolers having a cooling source temperature below 218 K (-
                       55°C), as follows:
                       a.     Closed cycle type with a specified Mean-Time-To-Failure (MTTF) or Mean-
                              Time-Between-Failures (MTBF), exceeding 2 500 hours;
                       b.     Joule-Thomson (JT) self-regulating minicoolers having bore (outside) diameters
                              of less than 8 mm;
                3.     Optical sensing fibres specially fabricated either compositionally or structurally, or
                       modified by coating, to be acoustically, thermally, inertially, electromagnetically or
                       nuclear radiation sensitive;
                Note: 6A002.d.3. does not control encapsulated optical sensing fibres specially designed for
                      bore hole sensing applications.
           e.   Not used.
           f.   'Read-out integrated circuits' ('ROIC') specially designed for "focal plane arrays" specified in
                6A002.a.3.
                Note: 6A002.f. does not control 'read-out integrated circuits' specially designed for civil
                      automotive applications.




                                                                                                                   173
                           CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6A002 continued

               Technical Note:
               A 'Read-Out Integrated Circuit' ('ROIC') is an integrated circuit designed to underlie or be
               bonded to a "focal plane array" ("FPA") and used to read-out (i.e., extract and register) signals
               produced by the detector elements. At a minimum the 'ROIC' reads the charge from the detector
               elements by extracting the charge and applying a multiplexing function in a manner that retains
               the relative spatial position and orientation information of the detector elements for processing
               inside or outside the 'ROIC'.


6A003   Cameras, systems or equipment, and components therefor, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A203.
        a.     Instrumentation cameras and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
               Note: Instrumentation cameras, specified in 6A003.a.3. to 6A003.a.5., with modular structures
                     should be evaluated by their maximum capability, using plug-ins available according to
                     the camera manufacturer's specifications.
               1.     Not used;
               2.     Not used;
               3.     Electronic streak cameras having temporal resolution better than 50 ns;
               4.     Electronic framing cameras having a speed exceeding 1 000 000 frames/s;
               5.     Electronic cameras having all of the following:
                      a.     An electronic shutter speed (gating capability) of less than 1 µs per full frame; and
                      b.     A read out time allowing a framing rate of more than 125 full frames per second;
               6.     Plug-ins having all of the following characteristics:
                      a.     Specially designed for instrumentation cameras which have modular structures
                             and which are specified in 6A003.a.; and
                      b.     Enabling these cameras to meet the characteristics specified in 6A003.a.3.,
                             6A003.a.4., or 6A003.a.5., according to the manufacturer's specifications;
        b.     Imaging cameras as follows:
               Note: 6A003.b. does not control television or video cameras, specially designed for television
                     broadcasting.
               1.     Video cameras incorporating solid state sensors, having a peak response in the
                      wavelength range exceeding 10 nm, but not exceeding 30 000 nm and having all of the
                      following:
                      a.     Having any of the following:
                             1.     More than 4 x 106 "active pixels" per solid state array for monochrome
                                    (black and white) cameras;
                             2.     More than 4 x 106 "active pixels" per solid state array for colour cameras
                                    incorporating three solid state arrays; or
                             3.     More than 12 x 106 "active pixels" for solid state array colour cameras
                                    incorporating one solid state array; and
                      b.     Having any of the following:
                             1.     Optical mirrors specified in 6A004.a.;
                             2.     Optical control equipment specified in 6A004.d.; or
                             3.     The capability for annotating internally generated 'camera tracking data';




                                                                                                                     174
                       CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6A003.b.   continued
                 Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purpose of this entry, digital video cameras should be evaluated by the
                                          maximum number of "active pixels" used for capturing moving images.
                                   2.    For the purpose of this entry, 'camera tracking data' is the information necessary
                                          to define camera line of sight orientation with respect to the earth. This includes:
                                          1) the horizontal angle the camera line of sight makes with respect to the earth's
                                          magnetic field direction and; 2) the vertical angle between the camera line of sight
                                          and the earth's horizon.

              2.    Scanning cameras and scanning camera systems, having all of the following:
                     a.     A peak response in the wavelength range exceeding 10 nm, but not exceeding 30
                            000 nm;
                     b.     Linear detector arrays with more than 8 192 elements per array; and
                     c.     Mechanical scanning in one direction;
                     Note: 6A003.b.2. does not control scanning cameras and scanning camera systems,
                            specially designed for any of the following:
                                          a.      Industrial or civilian photocopiers;
                                          b.      Image scanners specially designed for civil, stationary, close proximity
                                                 scanning applications (e.g., reproduction of images or print contained in
                                                 documents, artwork or photographs); or
                                          c.      Medical equipment.
              3.    Imaging cameras incorporating image intensifier tubes specified in 6A002.a.2.a. or
                     6A002.a.2.b.;
              4.    Imaging cameras incorporating "focal plane arrays" having any of the following:
                     a.     Incorporating "focal plane arrays" specified in 6A002.a.3.a. to 6A002.a.3.e.;
                     b.     Incorporating "focal plane arrays" specified in 6A002.a.3.f.; or
                     c.     Incorporating "focal plane arrays" specified in 6A002.a.3.g.;
                     Note 1:       Imaging cameras specified in 6A003.b.4. include "focal plane arrays"
                                   combined with sufficient "signal processing" electronics, beyond the read
                                   out integrated circuit, to enable as a minimum the output of an analogue
                                   or digital signal once power is supplied.
                     Note 2:       6A003.b.4.a. does not control imaging cameras incorporating linear "focal
                                   plane arrays" with 12 elements or fewer, not employing time-delay-and-
                                   integration within the element and designed for any of the following:
                                          a.     Industrial or civilian intrusion alarm, traffic or industrial movement
                                                 control or counting systems;
                                          b.     Industrial equipment used for inspection or monitoring of heat flows
                                                 in buildings, equipment or industrial processes;
                                          c.     Industrial equipment used for inspection, sorting or analysis of the
                                                 properties of materials;
                                          d.     Equipment specially designed for laboratory use; or
                                          e.     Medical equipment.
                     Note 3:       6A003.b.4.b. does not control imaging cameras having any of the
                                   following:
                                          a.     A maximum frame rate equal to or less than 9 Hz ;
                                          b.     Having all of the following:
                                                 1.    Having a minimum horizontal or vertical 'Instantaneous-
                                                        Field-of-View (IFOV)' of at least 2 mrad (milliradians);
                                                 2.    Incorporating a fixed focal-length lens that is not designed
                                                        to be removed;

                                                 3.   Not incorporating a 'direct view' display, and

                                                 4.     Having any of the following:
                                                        a.      No facility to obtain a viewable image of the detected
                                                               field-of-view, or
                                                        b.      The camera is designed for a single kind of
                                                        application and designed not to be user modified; or
                                          c.    The camera is specially designed for installation into a civilian
                                                 passenger land vehicle and having all of the following:
                                                 1       The placement and configuration of the camera within the
                                                        vehicle are solely to assist the driver in the safe operation of
                                                        the vehicle;
                                                 2.      Is only operable when installed in any of the following:
                                                        a.      The civilian passenger land vehicle for which it was
                                                               intended and the vehicle weighs less than 4 500 kg
                                                               (gross vehicle weight); or
                                                        b.      A specially designed, authorized maintenance test
                                                               facility; and
                                                 3.      Incorporates an active mechanism that forces the camera
                                                        not to function when it is removed from the vehicle for which
                                                        it was intended.
                                          Technical Notes:
                                                 1.    'Instantaneous Field of View (IFOV)' specified in 6A003.b.4. Note
                                                        3.b. is the lesser figure of the 'Horizontal IFOV' or the 'Vertical
                                                        IFOV'.
                                                        'Horizontal IFOV' = horizontal Field of View (FOV) / number of
                                                        horizontal detector elements
                                                        'Vertical IFOV' = vertical Field of View (FOV) / number of vertical
                                                        detector elements.
                                                 2.    'Direct view' in 6A003.b.4. Note 3.b. refers to an imaging camera
                                                        operating in the infrared spectrum that presents a visual image to a
                                                        human observer using a near-to-eye micro display incorporating
                                                        any light-security mechanism.
                     Note 4:    6A003.b.4.c. does not control imaging cameras having any of the
                                   following:
                                          a.     Having all of the following:
                                                 1.    Where the camera is specially designed for installation as an
                                                        integrated component into indoor and wall-plug-operated
                                                        systems or equipment, limited by design for a single kind of
                                                        application, as follows;
                                                        a.      Industrial process monitoring, quality control, or
                                                               analysis of the properties of materials;
                                                        b.      Laboratory equipment specially designed for
                                                               scientific research;
                                                        c.      Medical equipment;
                                                        d.      Financial fraud detection equipment; and
                                                 2.    Is only operable when installed in any of the following:
                                                        a.      The system(s) or equipment for which it was intended;
                                                               or
                                                        b.      A specially designed, authorised maintenance
                                                               facility; and
                                                 3.    Incorporates an active mechanism that forces the camera not
                                                        to function when it is removed from the system(s) or
                                                        equipment for which it was intended;

       
                                          b.    Where the camera is specially designed for installation into a
                                                 civilian passenger land vehicle or passenger and vehicle ferries,
                                                 and having all of the following:
                                                 1.      The placement and configuration of the camera within the
                                                        vehicle or ferry is solely to assist the driver or operator in
                                                        the safe operation of the vehicle or ferry;
                                                 2.      Is only operable when installed in any of the following:
                                                        a.      The civilian passenger land vehicle for which it was
                                                               intended and the vehicle weighs less than 4 500 kg
                                                               (gross vehicle weight);
                                                        b.      The passenger and vehicle ferry for which it was
                                                               intended and having a length overall (LOA) 65 m or
                                                               greater; or
                                                        c.      A specially designed, authorised maintenance test
                                                               facility; and
                                                 3.      Incorporates an active mechanism that forces the camera not
                                                        to function when it is removed from the vehicle for which it
                                                        was intended;
                                          c.    Limited by design to have a maximum "radiant sensitivity" of 10
                                                 mA/W or less for wavelengths exceeding 760 nm, having all of the
                                                 following:
                                                 1.      Incorporating a response limiting mechanism designed not
                                                        to be removed or modified;
                                                 2.      Incorporates an active mechanism that forces the camera not
                                                        to function when the response limiting mechanism is
                                                        removed; and
                                                 3.      Not specially designed or modified for underwater use: or
                                          d.    Having all of the following:
                                                 1.      Not incorporating a 'direct view' or electronic image display;
                                                 2.      Has no facility to output a viewable image of the detected
                                                        field of view;
                                                 3.      The "focal plane array" is only operable when installed in the
                                                        camera for which it was intended; and
                                                 4.      The "focal plane array" incorporates an active mechanism
                                                      that forces it to be permanently inoperable when removed
                                                      from the camera for which it was intended
                5.     Imaging cameras incorporating solid-state detectors specified in 6A002.a.1.
6A004    Optical equipment and components, as follows:
         a.     Optical mirrors (reflectors) as follows:
                Technical Note:
                For the purpose of 6A004.a., Laser Induced Damage Threshold (LIDT) is measured according
                to ISO 21254-1:2011.
                N.B.   For optical mirrors specially designed for lithography equipment, see 3B001.
                1.     'Deformable mirrors' having an active optical aperture greater than 10 mm and having
                       any of the following, and specially designed components therefor,
                       a.       Having all the following:
                                1.      A mechanical resonant frequency of 750 Hz or more; and
                                2.      More than 200 actuators; or
                       b.       A Laser Induced Damage Threshold (LIDT) being any of the following:



                                                                                                                       178
                          CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

                           1.     Greater than 1 kW/ cm2 using a "CW laser"; or
                           2.     Greater than 2 J/ cm2 using 20 ns "laser" pulses at 20 Hz repetition rate;
6A004.a.1.    continued

                    Technical Note:
                    'Deformable mirrors' are mirrors having any of the following:
                    a.    A single continuous optical reflecting surface which is dynamically deformed by
                          the application of individual torques or forces to compensate for distortions in the
                          optical waveform incident upon the mirror; or
                    b.    Multiple optical reflecting elements that can be individually and dynamically
                          repositioned by the application of torques or forces to compensate for distortions
                          in the optical waveform incident upon the mirror.
                    'Deformable mirrors' are also known as adaptive optic mirrors.
              2.    Lightweight monolithic mirrors having an average "equivalent density" of less than
                           2
                    30 kg/m and a total mass exceeding 10 kg;
                    Note: 6A004.a.2. does not control mirrors specially designed to direct solar radiation
                          for terrestrial heliostat installations.
              3.    Lightweight "composite" or foam mirror structures having an average "equivalent
                    density" of less than 30 kg/m2 and a total mass exceeding 2 kg;
                    Note: 6A004.a.3. does not control mirrors specially designed to direct solar radiation
                          for terrestrial heliostat installations.
              4.    Mirrors specially designed for beam steering mirror stages specified in 6A004.d.2.a. with
                    a flatness of λ/10 or better (λ is equal to 633 nm)and having any of the following
                    a.     Diameter or major axis length greater than or equal to 100 mm; or
                    b.     Having all of the following:
                           1.     Diameter or major axis length greater than 50 mm but less than 100 mm;
                                  and
                           2.     A Laser Induced Damage Threshold (LIDT) being any of the following:
                                  a.     Greater than 10 kW/cm2 using a "CW laser"; or
                                  b.     Greater than 20 J/cm2 using 20 ns "laser" pulses at 20 Hz repetition
                                         rate;
         b.   Optical components made from zinc selenide (ZnSe) or zinc sulphide (ZnS) with transmission
              in the wavelength range exceeding 3 000 nm but not exceeding 25 000 nm and having any of the
              following:
              1.    Exceeding 100 cm3 in volume; or
              2.    Exceeding 80 mm in diameter or length of major axis and 20 mm in thickness (depth);
         c.   "Space-qualified" components for optical systems, as follows:
              1.    Components lightweighted to less than 20% "equivalent density" compared with a solid
                    blank of the same aperture and thickness;
              2.    Raw substrates, processed substrates having surface coatings (single-layer or multi-layer,
                    metallic or dielectric, conducting, semiconducting or insulating) or having protective
                    films;
              3.    Segments or assemblies of mirrors designed to be assembled in space into an optical
                    system with a collecting aperture equivalent to or larger than a single optic 1 m in
                    diameter;




                                                                                                                 179
                           CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6A004.c.continued

               4.     Components manufactured from "composite" materials having a coefficient of linear
                      thermal expansion, in any coordinate direction, equal to or less than 5 x 10 -6/K;
         d.    Optical control equipment as follows:
               1.     Equipment specially designed to maintain the surface figure or orientation of the "space-
                      qualified" components specified in 6A004.c.1. or 6A004.c.3.;
               2.     Steering, tracking, stabilisation and resonator alignment equipment as follows
                      a.     Beam steering mirror stages designed to carry mirrors having diameter or major
                             axis length greater than 50 mm and having all of the following, and specially
                             designed electronic control equipment therefor:
                             1.     A maximum angular travel of ±26 mrad or more;
                             2.     A mechanical resonant frequency of 500 Hz or more; and
                             3.     An angular "accuracy" of 10 μrad (microradians) or less (better);
                      b.     Resonator alignment equipment having bandwidths equal to or more than 100 Hz
                             and an "accuracy" of 10 μrad or less (better);
               3.     Gimbals having all of the following:
                      a.     A maximum slew exceeding 5°;
                      b.     A bandwidth of 100 Hz or more;
                      c.     Angular pointing errors of 200 µrad (microradians) or less; and
                      d.     Having any of the following:
                             1.     Exceeding 0,15 m but not exceeding 1 m in diameter or major axis length
                                    and capable of angular accelerations exceeding 2 rad (radians)/s2; or
                             2.     Exceeding 1 m in diameter or major axis length and capable of angular
                                    accelerations exceeding 0,5 rad (radians)/s2;
               4.     Not used
         e.    'Aspheric optical elements' having all of the following:
               1.     Largest dimension of the optical-aperture greater than 400 mm;
               2.     Surface roughness less than 1 nm (rms) for sampling lengths equal to or greater than 1
                      mm; and
               3.     Coefficient of linear thermal expansion's absolute magnitude less than 3 x 10-6/K at 25°C.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    An 'aspheric optical element' is any element used in an optical system whose imaging
                                          surface or surfaces are designed to depart from the shape of an ideal sphere.
                                   2.    Manufacturers are not required to measure the surface roughness listed in 6A004.e.2.
                                          unless the optical element was designed or manufactured with the intent to meet, or
                                          exceed, the control parameter.
               Note 6A004.e. does not control 'aspheric optical elements' having any of the following:
                                   a.     Largest optical-aperture dimension less than 1 m and focal length to aperture
                                          ratio equal to or greater than 4,5:1;
                                   b.     Largest optical-aperture dimension equal to or greater than 1 m and focal length
                                          to aperture ratio equal to or greater than 7:1;
                                   c.     Designed as Fresnel, flyeye, stripe, prism or diffractive optical elements;
                                   d.     Fabricated from borosilicate glass having a coefficient of linear thermal expansion
                                          greater than 2,5 x 10-6/K at 25 °C; or
                                   e.     An X-ray optical element having inner mirror capabilities (e.g., tube-type
                                          mirrors).
               N.B. For 'aspheric optical elements' specially designed for lithography equipment, see 3B001.


                                                                                                                   180
                           CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

        f.     Dynamic wavefront measuring equipment having all of the following:
               1.     'Frame rates' equal to or more than 1 kHz; and
6A004. continued

               2.     A wavefront accuracy equal to or less (better) than λ/20 at the designed wavelength.
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 6A004.f., 'frame rate' is a frequency at which all "active pixels" in the "focal
               plane array" are integrated for recording images projected by the wavefront sensor optics.
6A005   "Lasers", other than those specified in 0B001.g.5. or 0B001.h.6., components and optical equipment, as
        follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A205.
        Note 1:       Pulsed "lasers" include those that run in a continuous wave (CW) mode with pulses
                      superimposed.
        Note 2:       Excimer, semiconductor, chemical, CO, CO2, and 'non-repetitive pulsed' Nd:glass
                      "lasers" are only specified in 6A005.d.
                                          Technical Note:
                                          'Non-repetitive pulsed' refers to "lasers" that produce either a single output pulse or that
                      have a time interval between pulses exceeding one minute.
        Note 3:       6A005 includes fibre "lasers".
        Note 4:       The control status of "lasers" incorporating frequency conversion (i.e., wavelength change)
                      by means other than one "laser" pumping another "laser" is determined by applying the
                      control parameters for both the output of the source "laser" and the frequency-converted
                      optical output.
        Note 5:       6A005 does not control "lasers" as follows:
                                          a.    Ruby with output energy below 20 J;
                                          b.    Nitrogen;
                                          c.    Krypton.
        Note 6:       For the purposes of 6A005.a. and 6A005.b., 'single transverse mode' refers to "lasers" with
                      a beam profile having an M 2-factor of less than 1,3, while 'multiple transverse mode' refers
                      to "lasers" with a beam profile having an M 2-factor of 1,3 or higher.
        Technical Note:
        In 6A005 'Wall-plug efficiency' is defined as the ratio of "laser" output power (or "average output
        power") to total electrical input power required to operate the "laser", including the power
        supply/conditioning and thermal conditioning/heat exchanger.
        a.     Non-"tunable" continuous wave "(CW) lasers" having any of the following:
               1.     Output wavelength less than 150 nm and output power exceeding 1 W;
               2.     Output wavelength of 150 nm or more but not exceeding 510 nm and output power
                      exceeding 30 W;
                      Note: 6A005.a.2. does not control Argon "lasers" having an output power equal to or
                            less than 50 W.
               3.     Output wavelength exceeding 510 nm but not exceeding 540 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     'Single transverse mode' output and output power exceeding 50 W; or
                      b.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and output power exceeding 150 W;
               4.     Output wavelength exceeding 540 nm but not exceeding 800 nm and output power
                      exceeding 30 W;
               5.     Output wavelength exceeding 800 nm but not exceeding 975 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     'Single transverse mode' output and output power exceeding 50 W; or
                     b.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and output power exceeding 80 W;
              6.    Output wavelength exceeding 975 nm but not exceeding 1 150 nm and any of the
                     following:
                     a.     'Single transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                            1.     Output power exceeding 1 000 W; or
                            2.     Having all of the following:
                                   a.     Output power exceeding 500 W; and
                                   b.     Spectral bandwidth less than 40 GHz; or
                     b.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                            1.     'Wall-plug efficiency' exceeding 18% and output power exceeding 1
                                   000 W; or
                            2.     Output power exceeding 2 kW;
                            Note 1:       6A005.a.6.b. does not control 'multiple transverse mode', industrial
                                          "lasers" with output power exceeding 2 kW and not exceeding 6 kW
                                          with a total mass greater than 1 200 kg. For the purpose of this note,
                                          total mass includes all components required to operate the "laser",
                                          e.g., "laser", power supply, heat exchanger, but excludes external
                                          optics for beam conditioning or delivery.
                            Note 2:       6A005.a.6.b. does not control 'multiple transverse mode', industrial
                                          "lasers" having any of the following:
                                          a.     Not used;
                                          b.     Output power exceeding 1 kW but not exceeding 1,6 kW and
                                                 having a BPP exceeding 1,25 mm•mrad
                                          c.     Output power exceeding 1,6 kW but not exceeding 2,5 kW
                                                 and having a BPP exceeding 1,7 mm•mrad;
                                          d.     Output power exceeding 2,5 kW but not exceeding 3,3 kW
                                                 and having a BPP exceeding 2,5 mm•mrad;
                                          e.     Output power exceeding 3,3 kW but not exceeding 6 kW and
                                                 having a BPP exceeding 3,5 mm•mrad;
                                          f.     Not used;
                                          g.     Not used;
                                          h.     Output power exceeding 6 kW but not exceeding 8 kW and
                                                 having a BPP exceeding 12 mm•mrad; or
                                          i.     Output power exceeding 8 kW but not exceeding 10 kW and
                                                 having a BPP exceeding 24 mm•mrad.



              7.    Output wavelength exceeding 1 150 nm but not exceeding 1 555 nm and any of the
                     following:
                     a.     'Single transverse mode' and output power exceeding 50 W; or
                     b.     'Multiple transverse mode' and output power exceeding 80 W;
              8.    Output wavelength exceeding 1 555 nm but not exceeding 1 850 nm and output power
                     exceeding 1 W;
              9.    Output wavelength exceeding 1 850 nm but not exceeding 2 100 nm, and any of the
                     following:
                     a.     'Single transverse mode' and output power exceeding 1 W; or



                                                                                                               182
                            CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

                      b.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and output power exceeding 120 W; or
                10.   Output wavelength exceeding 2 100 nm and output power exceeding 1 W;
           b.   Non-"tunable" "pulsed lasers" having any of the following:
                1.    Output wavelength less than 150 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     Output energy exceeding 50 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 1 W; or
                      b.     "Average output power" exceeding 1 W;

                2.    Output wavelength of 150 nm or more but not exceeding 510 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     Output energy exceeding 1,5 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 30 W; or
                      b.     "Average output power" exceeding 30 W;
                             Note: 6A005.b.2.b. does not control Argon "lasers" having an "average output
                                   power" equal to or less than 50 W.
                3.    Output wavelength exceeding 510 nm but not exceeding 540 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     'Single transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                             1.     Output energy exceeding 1,5 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding
                                    50 W; or
                             2.     "Average output power" exceeding 50 W; or
                      b.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                             1.     Output energy exceeding 1,5 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding
                                    150 W; or
                             2.     "Average output power" exceeding 150 W;
                4.    Output wavelength exceeding 540 nm but not exceeding 800 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     "Pulse duration" less than 1 ps and any of the following:
                             1.     Output energy exceeding 0,005 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding
                                    5 GW; or
                             2.     "Average output power" exceeding 20 W; or
                      b.     "Pulse duration" equal to or exceeding 1 ps and any of the following:
                             1.     Output energy exceeding 1,5 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding
                                    30 W; or
                             2.     "Average output power" exceeding 30 W;
                5.    Output wavelength exceeding 800 nm but not exceeding 975 nm and any of the following:
                      a.     "Pulse duration" less than 1 ps and any of the following:
                             1.     Output energy exceeding 0,005 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding
                                    5 GW; or
                             2.     'Single transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                    20 W;
                      b.     "Pulse duration" equal to or exceeding 1 ps and not exceeding 1 µs and any of the
                             following:
                             1.     Output energy exceeding 0,5 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 50 W;
                             2.     'Single transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                    20 W; or
 
                            3.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   50 W; or
                     c.     "Pulse duration" exceeding 1 µs and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 2 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 50 W;
                            2.     'Single transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   50 W; or
                            3.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   80 W;


6A005.b.   continued

              6.    Output wavelength exceeding 975 nm but not exceeding 1 150 nm and any of the
                     following:
                     a.     "Pulse duration" of less than 1 ps, and any of the following:
                            1.     Output "peak power" exceeding 2 GW per pulse;
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 30 W; or
                            3.     Output energy exceeding 0,002 J per pulse;
                     b.     "Pulse duration" equal to or exceeding 1 ps and less than 1 ns and any of the
                            following:
                            1.     Output "peak power" exceeding 5 GW per pulse;
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 50 W; or
                            3.     Output energy exceeding 0,1 J per pulse;
                     c.     "Pulse duration" equal to or exceeding 1 ns but not exceeding 1 µs, and any of the
                            following:
                            1.     'Single transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                                   a.     "Peak power" exceeding 100 MW;
                                   b.     "Average output power" exceeding 20 W limited by design to a
                                          maximum pulse repetition frequency less than or equal to 1 kHz;
                                   c.     'Wall-plug efficiency' exceeding 12%, "average output power"
                                          exceeding 100 W and capable of operating at a pulse repetition
                                          frequency greater than 1 kHz;
                                   d.     "Average output power" exceeding 150 W and capable of operating
                                          at a pulse repetition frequency greater than 1 kHz; or
                                   e.     Output energy exceeding 2 J per pulse; or
                            2.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                                   a.     "Peak power" exceeding 400 MW;
                                   b.     'Wall-plug efficiency' exceeding 18% and "average output power"
                                          exceeding 500 W;
                                   c.     "Average output power" exceeding 2 kW; or
                                   d.     Output energy exceeding 4 J per pulse; or


                     d.     "Pulse duration" exceeding 1 µs and any of the following:
                            1.     'Single transverse mode' output and any of the following:


                                                                                                                184
                                CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

                                   a.     "Peak power" exceeding 500 kW;
                                   b.     'Wall-plug efficiency' exceeding 12% and "average output power"
                                          exceeding 100 W; or
                                   c.     "Average output power" exceeding 150 W; or
                            2.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and any of the following:
                                   a.     "Peak power" exceeding 1 MW;
                                   b.     'Wall-plug efficiency' exceeding 18% and "average output power"
                                          exceeding 500 W; or
                                   c.     "Average output power" exceeding 2 kW;


6A005.b.6.   continued

              7.    Output wavelength exceeding 1 150 nm but not exceeding 1 555 nm, and any of the
                   following:
                     a.     "Pulse duration" not exceeding 1 µs and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 0,5 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding
                                   50 W;
                            2.     'Single transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   20 W; or
                            3.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   50 W; or
                     b.     "Pulse duration" exceeding 1 µs and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 2 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 50 W;
                            2.     'Single transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   50 W; or
                            3.     'Multiple transverse mode' output and "average output power" exceeding
                                   80 W;
              8.    Output wavelength exceeding 1 555 nm but not exceeding 1 850 nm, and any of the
                     following:
                     a.     Output energy exceeding 100 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 1 W; or
                     b.     "Average output power" exceeding 1 W;
              9.    Output wavelength exceeding 1 850 nm but not exceeding 2 100 nm, and any of the
                     following
                     a.     'Single transverse mode' and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 100 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 1
                                   W; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 1 W; or
                     b.     'Multiple transverse mode' and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 100 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 10
                                   kW; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 120 W; or
              10.   Output wavelength exceeding 2 100 nm and any of the following:
                     a.     Output energy exceeding 100 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 1 W; or

                     b.    "Average output power" exceeding 1 W;
       c.   "Tunable" "lasers" having any of the following:
              1.     Output wavelength less than 600 nm and any of the following:
                     a.    Output energy exceeding 50 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 1 W; or
                     b.    Average or CW output power exceeding 1 W;
                     Note: 6A005.c.1. does not control dye "lasers" or other liquid "lasers", having a
                                                 multimode output and a wavelength of 150 nm or more but not exceeding 600 nm
                                                 and all of the following:
                                                 1.     Output energy less than 1,5 J per pulse or a "peak power" less than 20 W;
                                                        and
                                                 2.     Average or CW output power less than 20 W.
 
                2.     Output wavelength of 600 nm or more but not exceeding 1 400 nm, and any of the
                       following:
                       a.     Output energy exceeding 1 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 20 W; or
                       b.     Average or CW output power exceeding 20 W; or
                3.     Output wavelength exceeding 1 400 nm and any of the following:
                       a.     Output energy exceeding 50 mJ per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 1 W; or
                       b.     Average or CW output power exceeding 1 W;
           d.   Other "lasers", not specified in 6A005.a., 6A005.b. or 6A005.c. as follows:
                1.     Semiconductor "lasers" as follows:
                       Note 1:       6A005.d.1. includes semiconductor "lasers" having optical output
                                     connectors (e.g., fibre optic pigtails).
                       Note 2:       The control status of semiconductor "lasers" specially designed for other
                                     equipment is determined by the control status of the other equipment.
                       a.     Individual single-transverse mode semiconductor "lasers" having any of the following:
                              1.     Wavelength equal to or less than 1 510 nm and average or CW output
                                     power, exceeding 1,5 W; or
                              2.     Wavelength greater than 1 510 nm and average or CW output power,
                                     exceeding 500 mW;
                       b.     Individual multiple-transverse mode semiconductor "lasers" having any of the
                              following:
                              1.     Wavelength of less than 1 400 nm and average or CW output power,
                                     exceeding 15W;
                              2.     Wavelength equal to or greater than 1 400 nm and less than 1 900 nm and
                                     average or CW output power, exceeding 2,5 W; or
                              3.     Wavelength equal to or greater than 1 900 nm and average or CW output
                                     power, exceeding 1 W;
                       c.     Individual semiconductor "laser" 'bars', having any of the following:
                              1.     Wavelength of less than 1 400 nm and average or CW output power,
                                     exceeding 100 W;
                              2.     Wavelength equal to or greater than 1 400 nm and less than 1 900 nm and
                                     average or CW output power, exceeding 25 W; or
                              3.     Wavelength equal to or greater than 1 900 nm and average or CW output
                                     power, exceeding 10 W;
                       d.     Semiconductor "laser" 'stacked arrays' (two-dimensional arrays) having any of the
                              following:
                              1.     Wavelength less than 1 400 nm and having any of the following:
                                     a.     Average or CW total output power less than 3 kW and having
                                            average or CW output 'power density' greater than 500 W/cm 2;
                                     b.     Average or CW total output power equal to or exceeding 3 kW but
                                            less than or equal to 5 kW, and having average or CW output 'power
                                            density' greater than 350 W/cm2;
                                     c.     Average or CW total output power exceeding 5 kW;
                                     d.     Peak pulsed 'power density' exceeding 2 500 W/cm 2; or


 

                                          Note: 6A005.d.1.d.1.d. does not control epitaxially-fabricated
                                                monolithic devices.
                                    e.     Spatially coherent average or CW total output power, greater than
                                          150 W;
                             2.     Wavelength greater than or equal to 1 400 nm but less than 1 900 nm, and
                                   having any of the following:
                                   a.     Average or CW total output power less than 250 W and average or
                                          CW output 'power density' greater than 150 W/cm 2;
                                   b.     Average or CW total output power equal to or exceeding 250 W but
                                          less than or equal to 500 W, and having average or CW output
                                          'power density' greater than 50 W/cm2;
                                   c.     Average or CW total output power exceeding 500 W;
                                   d.     Peak pulsed 'power density' exceeding 500 W/cm 2; or
                                          Note: 6A005.d.1.d.2.d. does not control epitaxially-fabricated
                                                monolithic devices.
                                   e.     Spatially coherent average or CW total output power, exceeding
                                          15 W;
                            3.     Wavelength greater than or equal to 1 900 nm and having any of the
                                   following:
                                   a.     Average or CW output 'power density' greater than 50 W/cm 2;
                                   b.     Average or CW output power greater than 10 W; or
                                   c.     Spatially coherent average or CW total output power, exceeding 1,5
                                          W; or
                            4.     At least one "laser" 'bar' specified in 6A005.d.1.c.;
                            Technical Note:
                            For the purposes of 6A005.d.1.d., 'power density' means the total "laser" output
                            power divided by the emitter surface area of the 'stacked array'.
                     e.     Semiconductor "laser" 'stacked arrays', other than those specified in 6A005.d.1.d.,
                            having all of the following:
                            1.     Specially designed or modified to be combined with other 'stacked arrays'
                                   to form a larger 'stacked array'; and
                            2.     Integrated connections, common for both electronics and cooling;
                            Note 1:       'Stacked arrays', formed by combining semiconductor "laser"
                                          'stacked arrays' specified in 6A005.d.1.e., that are not designed to
                                          be further combined or modified are specified in 6A005.d.1.d.
                            Note 2:       'Stacked arrays', formed by combining semiconductor "laser"
                                          'stacked arrays' specified in 6A005.d.1.e., that are designed to be
                                          further combined or modified are specified in 6A005.d.1.e.
                            Note 3:       6A005.d.1.e. does not control modular assemblies of single 'bars'
                                          designed to be fabricated into end-to-end stacked linear arrays.
                     Technical Notes:
                                          1.    Semiconductor "lasers" are commonly called "laser" diodes.
                                          2.    A 'bar' (also called a semiconductor "laser" 'bar', a "laser" diode 'bar' or diode
                                          'bar') consists of multiple semiconductor "lasers" in a one-dimensional array.
                                          3.    A 'stacked array' consists of multiple 'bars' forming a two-dimensional array of
                                          semiconductor "lasers".

 
              2.    Carbon monoxide (CO) "lasers" having any of the following:
                     a.      Output energy exceeding 2 J per pulse and "peak power" exceeding 5 kW; or
                     b.      Average or CW output power exceeding 5 kW;
              3.    Carbon dioxide (CO2) "lasers" having any of the following:
                     a.      CW output power exceeding 15 kW;
                     b.      Pulsed output with a "pulse duration" exceeding 10 µs and any of the following:
                            1.     "Average output power" exceeding 10 kW; or
                            2.     "Peak power" exceeding 100 kW; or
                     c.      Pulsed output with a "pulse duration" equal to or less than 10 µs and any of the
                            following:
                            1.     Pulse energy exceeding 5 J per pulse; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 2,5 kW;
              4.    Excimer "lasers" having any of the following:
                     a.      Output wavelength not exceeding 150 nm and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 50 mJ per pulse; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 1 W;
                     b.      Output wavelength exceeding 150 nm but not exceeding 190 nm and any of the
                            following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 1,5 J per pulse; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 120 W;
                     c.      Output wavelength exceeding 190 nm but not exceeding 360 nm and any of the
                            following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 10 J per pulse; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 500 W; or
                     d.      Output wavelength exceeding 360 nm and any of the following:
                            1.     Output energy exceeding 1,5 J per pulse; or
                            2.     "Average output power" exceeding 30 W;
                     N.B.    For excimer "lasers" specially designed for lithography equipment, see 3B001.
              5.    "Chemical lasers" as follows:
                     a.      Hydrogen Fluoride (HF) "lasers";
                     b.      Deuterium Fluoride (DF) "lasers";
                     c.      'Transfer lasers' as follows:
                            1.     Oxygen Iodine (O2-I) "lasers";
                            2.     Deuterium Fluoride-Carbon dioxide (DF-CO2) "lasers";
                            Technical Note:
                            'Transfer lasers' are "lasers" in which the lasing species are excited through the
                            transfer of energy by collision of a non- lasing atom or molecule with a lasing
                            atom or molecule species.
              6.    'Non-repetitive pulsed' Nd: glass "lasers" having any of the following:
 
                     a.     "Pulse duration" not exceeding 1 µs and output energy exceeding 50 J per pulse;
                            or
                     b.     "Pulse duration" exceeding 1 µs and output energy exceeding 100 J per pulse;
                     Note: 'Non-repetitive pulsed' refers to "lasers" that produce either a single output pulse
                           or that have a time interval between pulses exceeding one minute.
         e.   Components as follows:
              1.     Mirrors cooled either by 'active cooling' or by heat pipe cooling;
                     Technical Note:
                     'Active cooling' is a cooling technique for optical components using flowing fluids within
                     the subsurface (nominally less than 1 mm below the optical surface) of the optical
                     component to remove heat from the optic.
              2.     Optical mirrors or transmissive or partially transmissive optical or electro-optical
                     components, other than fused tapered fibre combiners and Multi-Layer Dielectric gratings
                     (MLDs), specially designed for use with specified "lasers";
                     Note: Fibre combiners and MLDs are specified in 6A005.e.3.
              3.     Fibre "laser" components as follows:
                     a.     Multimode to multimode fused tapered fibre combiners having all of the
                            following:
                            1.     An insertion loss better (less) than or equal to 0,3 dB maintained at a rated
                                   total average or CW output power (excluding output power transmitted
                                   through the single mode core if present) exceeding 1 000 W; and
                            2.     Number of input fibres equal to or greater than 3;
                     b.     Single mode to multimode fused tapered fibre combiners having all of the
                            following:
                            1.     An insertion loss better (less) than 0,5 dB maintained at a rated total
                                   average or CW output power exceeding 4 600 W;
                            2.     Number of input fibres equal to or greater than 3; and
                            3.     Having any of the following:
                                   a.     A Beam Parameter Product (BPP) measured at the output not
                                          exceeding 1,5 mm mrad for a number of input fibres less than or
                                          equal to 5; or
                                   b.     A BPP measured at the output not exceeding 2,5 mm mrad for a
                                          number of input fibres greater than 5;
                     c.     MLDs having all of the following:
                            1.     Designed for spectral or coherent beam combination of 5 or more fibre
                                   "lasers"; and
                            2.     CW "Laser" Induced Damage Threshold (LIDT) greater than or equal to
                                   10 kW/cm2.
         f.   Optical equipment as follows:
              N.B.   For shared aperture optical elements, capable of operating in "Super-High Power Laser"
                     ("SHPL") applications, see the Military Goods Controls.
              1.     Not used;
              2.     "Laser" diagnostic equipment specially designed for dynamic measurement of "SHPL"
                     system angular beam steering errors and having an angular "accuracy" of 10 µrad
                     (microradians) or less (better);


                                                                                                                   191
                            CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

                3.     Optical equipment and components, specially designed for coherent beam combination
                       in a phased-array "SHPL" system and having any of the following:
                       a.     An "accuracy" of 0,1 µm or less, for wavelengths greater than 1 µm; or
6A005.f. continued

                       b.     An "accuracy" of λ/10 or less (better) at the designed wavelength, for wavelengths
                              equal to or less than 1 µm;
                4.     Projection telescopes specially designed for use with "SHPL" systems;
         g.     'Laser acoustic detection equipment' having all of the following:
                1.     CW "laser" output power equal to or exceeding 20 mW;
                2.     "Laser" frequency stability equal to or better (less) than 10 MHz;
                3.     "Laser" wavelengths equal to or exceeding 1 000 nm but not exceeding 2 000 nm;
                4.     Optical system resolution better (less) than 1 nm; and
                5.     Optical Signal to Noise ratio equal to or exceeding 103.
                Technical Note:
                'Laser acoustic detection equipment' is sometimes referred to as a "Laser" Microphone or
                Particle Flow Detection Microphone.


6A006    "Magnetometers", "magnetic gradiometers", "intrinsic magnetic gradiometers", underwater electric
         field sensors, "compensation systems", and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A103.d.
         Note: 6A006 does not control instruments specially designed for fishery applications or biomagnetic
               measurements for medical diagnostics.
         a.     "Magnetometers" and subsystems as follows:
                1.     "Magnetometers" using "superconductive" (SQUID) "technology" and having any of the
                       following:
                       a.     SQUID systems designed for stationary operation, without specially designed
                              subsystems designed to reduce in-motion noise, and having a 'sensitivity' equal to
                              or lower (better) than 50 fT (rms) per square root Hz at a frequency of 1 Hz; or
                       b.     SQUID systems having an in-motion-magnetometer 'sensitivity' lower (better)
                              than 20 pT (rms) per square root Hz at a frequency of 1 Hz and specially designed
                              to reduce in-motion noise;
                2.     "Magnetometers" using optically pumped or nuclear precession (proton/Overhauser)
                       "technology" having a 'sensitivity' lower (better) than 20 pT (rms) per square root Hz at
                       a frequency of 1 Hz;
                3.     "Magnetometers" using fluxgate "technology" having a 'sensitivity' equal to or lower
                       (better) than 10 pT (rms) per square root Hz at a frequency of 1 Hz;
                4.     Induction coil "magnetometers" having a 'sensitivity' lower (better) than any of the
                       following:
                       a.     0,05 nT (rms) per square root Hz at frequencies of less than 1 Hz;
                       b.     1 x 10-3 nT (rms) per square root Hz at frequencies of 1 Hz or more but not
                              exceeding 10 Hz; or
                       c.     1 x 10-4 nT (rms) per square root Hz at frequencies exceeding 10 Hz;
                5.     Fibre optic "magnetometers" having a 'sensitivity' lower (better) than 1 nT (rms) per
                       square root Hz;
 
       b.   Underwater electric field sensors having a 'sensitivity' lower (better) than 8 nanovolt per metre
       per square root Hz when measured at 1 Hz;



 
        c.     "Magnetic gradiometers" as follows:
               1.     "Magnetic gradiometers" using multiple "magnetometers" specified in 6A006.a.;
               2.     Fibre optic "intrinsic magnetic gradiometers" having a magnetic gradient field 'sensitivity'
                      lower (better) than 0,3 nT/m rms per square root Hz;
               3.     "Intrinsic magnetic gradiometers", using "technology" other than fibre-optic
                      "technology", having a magnetic gradient field 'sensitivity' lower (better) than 0,015 nT/m
                      rms per square root Hz;
        d.     "Compensation systems" for magnetic or underwater electric field sensors resulting in a
               performance equal to or better than the specified parameters of 6A006.a., 6A006.b. or 6A006.c.;
        e.     Underwater electromagnetic receivers incorporating magnetic field sensors specified in
               6A006.a. or underwater electric field sensors specified in 6A006.b.
        Technical Note:
        For the purposes of 6A006, 'sensitivity' (noise level) is the root mean square of the device-limited noise
        floor which is the lowest signal that can be measured.

6A007   Gravity meters (gravimeters) and gravity gradiometers, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A107.
        a.     Gravity meters designed or modified for ground use and having a static "accuracy" of less (better)
               than 10 µGal;
               Note: 6A007.a. does not control ground gravity meters of the quartz element (Worden) type.
        b.     Gravity meters designed for mobile platforms and having all of the following:
               1.     A static "accuracy" of less (better) than 0,7 mGal; and
               2.     An in-service (operational) "accuracy" of less (better) than 0,7 mGal having a "time-to-
                      steady-state registration" of less than 2 minutes under any combination of attendant
                      corrective compensations and motional influences;
        c.     Gravity gradiometers.
6A008   Radar systems, equipment and assemblies, having any of the following, and specially designed
        components therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6A108.
        Note: 6A008 does not control:
                                   –     Secondary surveillance radar (SSR);
                                   –     Civil Automotive Radar;
                                   –     Displays or monitors used for air traffic control (ATC);
                                   –     Meteorological (weather) radar;
                                   –     Precision approach radar (PAR) equipment conforming to ICAO standards and
                                   employing electronically steerable linear (1-dimensional) arrays or mechanically
                                   positioned passive antennae.
        a.     Operating at frequencies from 40 GHz to 230 GHz and having any of the following:
               1.     An average output power exceeding 100 mW; or
               2.     Locating "accuracy" of 1 m or less (better) in range and 0,2 degree or less (better) in
                      azimuth;
        b.     A tunable bandwidth exceeding ± 6,25% of the 'centre operating frequency';
               Technical Note:
               The 'centre operating frequency' equals one half of the sum of the highest plus the lowest
               specified operating frequencies.


        c.   Capable of operating simultaneously on more than two carrier frequencies;


        d.   Capable of operating in synthetic aperture (SAR), inverse synthetic aperture (ISAR) radar mode,
             or sidelooking airborne (SLAR) radar mode;
        e.   Incorporating electronically scanned array antennae;
             Technical Note:
             Electronically scanned array antennae are also known as electronically steerable array
             antennae.
        f.   Capable of heightfinding non-cooperative targets;
        g.   Specially designed for airborne (balloon or airframe mounted) operation and having Doppler
             "signal processing" for the detection of moving targets;
        h.   Employing processing of radar signals and using any of the following:
             1.     "Radar spread spectrum" techniques; or
             2.     "Radar frequency agility" techniques;
        i.   Providing ground-based operation with a maximum 'instrumented range' exceeding 185 km;
             Note: 6A008.i. does not control:
                                   a.    Fishing ground surveillance radar;
                                   b.    Ground radar equipment specially designed for enroute air traffic control and having all
                                          the following:
                                          1.      A maximum 'instrumented range' of 500 km or less;
                                          2.      Configured so that radar target data can be transmitted only one way from the
                                                 radar site to one or more civil ATC centres;
                                          3.      Contains no provisions for remote control of the radar scan rate from the enroute
                                                 ATC centre; and
                                          4.      Permanently installed;
                                   c.    Weather balloon tracking radars.
             Technical Note:
             For the purposes of 6A008.i. 'instrumented range' is the specified unambiguous display range of
             a radar.
        j.   Being "laser" radar or Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) equipment and having any of the
             following:
              1.     "Space-qualified";
              2.     Employing coherent heterodyne or homodyne detection techniques and having an angular
                     resolution of less (better) than 20 µrad (microradians); or
              3.     Designed for carrying out airborne bathymetric littoral surveys to International
                     Hydrographic Organization (IHO) Order 1a Standard (5th Edition February 2008) for
                     Hydrographic Surveys or better, and using one or more "lasers" with a wavelength
                     exceeding 400 nm but not exceeding 600 nm;
              Note 1:       LIDAR equipment specially designed for surveying is only specified in 6A008.j.3.
              Note 2:       6A008.j. does not control LIDAR equipment specially designed for meteorological
                            observation.
              Note 3:       Parameters in the IHO Order 1a Standard (5th Edition February 2008) are
                           summarised as follows:
                                          –      Horizontal Accuracy (95% Confidence Level) = 5 m + 5% of depth.
                                          –      Depth Accuracy for Reduced Depths (95% confidence level) =
                                                 ±√(a2+(b*d)2), where:
                                                        a = 0,5 m = constant depth error,
                                                        i.e., the sum of all constant depth errors
                                                               b = 0,013 = factor of depth dependent error
                                                               b*d = depth dependent error,
                                                               i.e., the sum of all depth dependent errors
                                                               d = depth
                                                 –     Feature Detection = Cubic features > 2 m in depths up to 40 m; 10% of
                                                        depth beyond 40 m.
         k.     Having "signal processing" sub-systems using "pulse compression" and having any of the
                following:
                1.     A "pulse compression" ratio exceeding 150; or
                2.     A compressed pulse width of less than 200 ns; or
                       Note: 6A008.k.2. does not control two dimensional 'marine radar' or 'vessel traffic
                             service' radar, having all of the following;
                                          a.     "Pulse compression" ratio not exceeding 150;
                                          b.     Compressed pulse width of greater than 30 ns;
                                          c.     Single and rotating mechanically scanned antenna;
                                          d.     Peak output power not exceeding 250 W; and
                                          e.     Not capable of "frequency hopping".
         l.     Having data processing sub-systems and having any of the following:
                1.     'Automatic target tracking' providing, at any antenna rotation, the predicted target position
                       beyond the time of the next antenna beam passage; or
                       Note: 6A008.l.1. does not control conflict alert capability in ATC systems, or 'marine
                             radar'.
                       Technical Note:
                       'Automatic target tracking' is a processing technique that automatically determines and
                       provides as output an extrapolated value of the most probable position of the target in
                       real time.
                2.     Not used;
                3.     Not used;
                4.     Configured to provide superposition and correlation, or fusion, of target data within six
                       seconds from two or more 'geographically dispersed' radar sensors to improve the
                       aggregate performance beyond that of any single sensor specified in 6A008.f. or 6A008.i.
                       Technical Note:
                       Sensors are considered 'geographically dispersed' when each location is distant from any
                       other more than 1 500 m in any direction. Mobile sensors are always considered
                       'geographically dispersed'.
                       N.B.    See also Military Goods Controls.
                       Note: 6A008.l.4. does not control systems, equipment and assemblies used for 'vessel
                             traffic service'.
         Technical Notes:
                                          1.    For the purposes of 6A008, 'marine radar' is a radar that is used to navigate safely at sea, inland
                                                 waterways or near-shore environments.
                                          2.    For the purposes of 6A008, 'vessel traffic service' is a vessel traffic monitoring and control
                                                 service similar to air traffic control for "aircraft".
6A102    Radiation hardened 'detectors', other than those specified in 6A002, specially designed or modified for
         protecting against nuclear effects (e.g. electromagnetic pulse (EMP), X-rays, combined blast and
         thermal effects) and usable for "missiles", designed or rated to withstand radiation levels which meet or
         exceed a total irradiation dose of 5 x 105 rads (silicon).


                                                                                                                       197
                             CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

        Technical Note:
        In 6A102, a 'detector' is defined as a mechanical, electrical, optical or chemical device that
        automatically identifies and records, or registers a stimulus such as an environmental change in
        pressure or temperature, an electrical or electromagnetic signal or radiation from a radioactive
        material. This includes devices that sense by one time operation or failure.
6A107   Gravity meters (gravimeters) and components for gravity meters and gravity gradiometers, as follows:
        a.       Gravity meters, other than those specified in 6A007.b., designed or modified for airborne or
                 marine use, and having a static or operational accuracy equal to or less (better) than 0,7 milligal
                 (mgal), and having a time-to-steady-state registration of two minutes or less;
        b.       Specially designed components for gravity meters specified in 6A007.b. or 6A107.a. and gravity
                 gradiometers specified in 6A007.c.
6A108   Radar systems, tracking systems and radomes, other than those specified in entry 6A008, as follows:
        a.       Radar and laser radar systems designed or modified for use in space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104;
                 Note: 6A108.a. includes the following:
                                   a.    Terrain contour mapping equipment;
                                   b.    Scene mapping and correlation (both digital and analogue) equipment;
                                   c.    Doppler navigation radar equipment;
                                   d.    Passive interferometer equipment;
                                   e.    Imaging sensor equipment (both active and passive).
        b.       Precision tracking systems, usable for 'missiles', as follows:
                 1.     Tracking systems which use a code translator in conjunction with either surface or
                        airborne references or navigation satellite systems to provide real-time measurements of
                        in-flight position and velocity;
                 2.     Range instrumentation radars including associated optical/infrared trackers with all of the
                        following capabilities:
                        a.     Angular resolution better than 1,5 milliradians;
                        b.     Range of 30 km or greater with a range resolution better than 10 m rms; and
                        c.     Velocity resolution better than 3 m/s;
                 Technical Note:
                 In 6A108.b. 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems
                 capable of a range exceeding 300 km.
        c.       Radomes designed to withstand a combined thermal shock greater than 4,184 x 10 6 J/m2
                 accompained by a peak over pressure of greater than 50 kPa, and usable in "missiles" for
                 protecting against nuclear effects (e.g. electromagnetic pulse (EMP), X-rays, combined blast and
                 thermal effects).
6A202   Photomultiplier tubes having both of the following characteristics:
        a.    Photocathode area of greater than 20 cm 2; and
        b.    Anode pulse rise time of less than 1 ns.
6A203   Cameras and components, other than those specified in 6A003, as follows:
        N.B.1.          "Software" specially designed to enhance or release the performance of a camera or
                        imaging device to meet the characteristics of 6A203.a., 6A203.b. or 6A203.c. is specified
                        in 6D203.
        N.B.2.          "Technology" in the form of codes or keys to enhance or release the performance of a
                        camera or imaging device to meet the characteristics of 6A203.a., 6A203.b. or 6A203.c.
                        is specified in 6E203.
        Note:           6A203.a. to 6A203.c. does not control cameras or imaging devices if they have hardware,
                        "software" or "technology" constraints that limit the performance to less than that
                        specified below, provided they meet any of the following:

                                          1.     They need to be returned to the original manufacturer to make the enhancements
                                                 or release the constraints;
                                          2.     They require "software" as specified in 6D203 to enhance or release the
                                                 performance to meet the characteristics of 6A203; or
                                          3.     They require "technology" in the form of keys or codes as specified in 6E203 to
                                                 enhance or release the performance to meet the characteristics of 6A203.
        a.     Streak cameras, and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
               1.     Streak cameras with writing speeds greater than 0,5 mm/μs;
               2.     Electronic streak cameras capable of 50 ns or less time resolution;
               3.     Streak tubes for cameras specified in 6A203.a.2.;
               4.     Plug-ins specially designed for use with streak cameras which have modular structures
                      and that enable the performance specifications in 6A203.a.1. or 6A203.a.2.;
               5.     Synchronizing electronics units, rotor assemblies consisting of turbines, mirrors and
                      bearings specially designed for cameras specified in 6A203.a.1.;
        b.     Framing cameras, and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
               1.     Framing cameras with recording rates greater than 225 000 frames per second;
               2.     Framing cameras capable of 50 ns or less frame exposure time;
               3.     Framing tubes and solid-state imaging devices having a fast image gating (shutter) time
                      of 50 ns or less specially designed for cameras specified in 6A203.b.1. or 6A203.b.2.;
               4.     Plug-ins specially designed for use with framing cameras which have modular structures
                      and that enable the performance specifications in 6A203.b.1. or 6A203.b.2.;
               5.     Synchronizing electronics units, rotor assemblies consisting of turbines, mirrors and
                      bearings specially designed for cameras specified in 6A203.b.1. or 6A203.b.2.;
               Technical Note:
               In 6A203.b., high speed single frame cameras can be used alone to produce a single image of a
               dynamic event, or several such cameras can be combined in a sequentially-triggered system to
               produce multiple images of an event.
        c.     Solid state or electron tube cameras, and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
               1.     Solid-state cameras or electron tube cameras with a fast image gating (shutter) time of 50
                      ns or less;
               2.     Solid-state imaging devices and image intensifiers tubes having a fast image gating
                      (shutter) time of 50 ns or less specially designed for cameras specified in 6A203.c.1.;
               3.     Electro-optical shuttering devices (Kerr or Pockels cells) with a fast image gating
                      (shutter) time of 50 ns or less;
               4.     Plug-ins specially designed for use with cameras which have modular structures and that
                      enable the performance specifications in 6A203.c.1.
        d.     Radiation-hardened TV cameras, or lenses therefor, specially designed or rated as radiation
               hardened to withstand a total radiation dose greater than 50 x 10 3 Gy(silicon) (5 x 106 rad
               (silicon)) without operational degradation.
               Technical Note:
               The term Gy(silicon) refers to the energy in Joules per kilogram absorbed by an unshielded
               silicon sample when exposed to ionising radiation.
6A205   "Lasers", "laser" amplifiers and oscillators, other than those specified in 0B001.g.5., 0B001.h.6. and
        6A005, as follows:


                                                                                                                   199
                   CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

       N.B.   For copper vapour lasers, see 6A005.b.
       a.     Argon ion "lasers" having both of the following characteristics:
              1.     Operating at wavelengths between 400 nm and 515 nm; and
              2.     An "average output power" greater than 40 W;

 

        b.     Tunable pulsed single-mode dye laser oscillators having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Operating at wavelengths between 300 nm and 800 nm;
               2.     An "average output power" greater than 1 W;
               3.     A repetition rate greater than 1 kHz; and
               4.     Pulse width less than 100 ns;
        c.     Tunable pulsed dye laser amplifiers and oscillators, having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Operating at wavelengths between 300 nm and 800 nm;
               2.     An "average output power" greater than 30 W;
               3.     A repetition rate greater than 1 kHz; and
               4.     Pulse width less than 100 ns;
               Note: 6A205.c. does not control single mode oscillators.
        d.     Pulsed carbon dioxide (CO2) "lasers" having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     Operating at wavelengths between 9 000 nm and 11 000 nm;
               2.     A repetition rate greater than 250 Hz;
               3.     An "average output power" greater than 500 W; and
               4.     Pulse width of less than 200 ns;
        e.     Para-hydrogen Raman shifters designed to operate at 16 µm output wavelength and at a
               repetition rate greater than 250 Hz;
        f.     Neodymium-doped (other than glass) "lasers" with an output wavelength between 1 000 and 1
               100 nm having either of the following:
               1.     Pulse-excited and Q-switched with a pulse duration equal to or more than 1 ns, and having
                      either of the following:
                      a.     A single–transverse mode output with an "average output power" greater than
                             40W; or
                      b.     A multiple-transverse mode output having an average power greater than 50 W;
                             or
               2.     Incorporating frequency doubling to give an output wavelength between 500 and 550 nm
                      with an "average output power" of more than 40 W;
        g.     Pulsed carbon monoxide (CO) "lasers", other than those specified in 6A005.d.2., having all of
               the following:
               1.     Operating at wavelengths between 5 000 and 6 000 nm;
               2.     A repetition rate greater than 250 Hz;
               3.     An "average output power" greater than 200 W; and
               4.     Pulse width of less than 200 ns.
6A225   Velocity interferometers for measuring velocities exceeding 1 km/s during time intervals of less than
        10 microseconds.
        Note: 6A225 includes velocity interferometers such as VISARs (Velocity Interferometer Systems for
              Any Reflector), DLIs (Doppler Laser Interferometers) and PDV (Photonic Doppler
              Velocimeters) also known as Het-V (Heterodyne Velocimeters).
6A226   Pressure sensors, as follows:



                                                                                                                   201
                           CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

        a.     Shock pressure gauges capable of measuring pressures greater than 10 GPa, including gauges
               made with manganin, ytterbium, and polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) / polyvinyl difluoride
               (PVF2);
        b.     Quartz pressure transducers for pressures greater than 10 GPa.


6B      Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
6B002   Masks and reticles, specially designed for optical sensors specified in 6A002.a.1.b. or 6A002.a.1.d.
6B004   Optical equipment as follows:
        a.     Equipment for measuring absolute reflectance to an "accuracy" of equal to or better than 0,1%
               of the reflectance value;
        b.     Equipment other than optical surface scattering measurement equipment, having an unobscured
               aperture of more than 10 cm, specially designed for the non-contact optical measurement of a
               non-planar optical surface figure (profile) to an "accuracy" of 2 nm or less (better) against the
               required profile.
        Note: 6B004 does not control microscopes.
6B007   Equipment to produce, align and calibrate land-based gravity meters with a static "accuracy" of better
        than 0,1 mGal.
6B008   Pulse radar cross-section measurement systems having transmit pulse widths of 100 ns or less, and
        specially designed components therefor.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 6B108.
6B108   Systems, other than those specified in 6B008, specially designed for radar cross section measurement
        usable for 'missiles' and their subsystems.
        Technical Note:
        In 6B108 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
6C      Materials
6C002   Optical sensor materials as follows:
        a.     Elemental tellurium (Te) of purity levels of 99,9995% or more;
        b.     Single crystals (including epitaxial wafers) of any of the following:
               1.     Cadmium zinc telluride (CdZnTe), with zinc content of less than 6% by 'mole fraction';
               2.     Cadmium telluride (CdTe) of any purity level; or
               3.     Mercury cadmium telluride (HgCdTe) of any purity level.
                      Technical Note:
                      'Mole fraction' is defined as the ratio of moles of ZnTe to the sum of moles of CdTe and
                      ZnTe present in the crystal.
6C004   Optical materials as follows:
        a.     Zinc selenide (ZnSe) and zinc sulphide (ZnS) "substrate blanks", produced by the chemical
               vapour deposition process and having any of the following:
                                                     3
               1.     A volume greater than 100 cm ; or
               2.     A diameter greater than 80 mm and a thickness of 20 mm or more;
        b.     Electro-optic materials and non-linear optical materials, as follows:
               1.     Potassium titanyl arsenate (KTA) (CAS 59400-80-5);
               2.     Silver gallium selenide (AgGaSe2 , also known as AGSE) (CAS 12002-67-4);

              3.   Thallium arsenic selenide (Tl3AsSe3 , also known as TAS) (CAS 16142-89-5);
              4.   Zinc germanium phosphide (ZnGeP2, also known as ZGP, zinc germanium biphosphide
              or zinc germanium diphosphide); or
              5.   Gallium selenide (GaSe) (CAS 12024-11-2);




                                                                                       203
                           CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6C004 continued

        c.     Non-linear optical materials, other than those specified in 6C004.b., having any of the following:
               1.     Having all of the following:
                      a.     Dynamic (also known as non-stationary) third order non-linear susceptibility ((3),
                             chi 3) of 10-6 m2/V2 or more; and
                      b.     Response time of less than 1 ms; or
               2.     Second order non-linear susceptibility ((2), chi 2) of 3,310-11 m/V or more;
        d.     "Substrate blanks" of silicon carbide or beryllium beryllium (Be/Be) deposited materials,
               exceeding 300 mm in diameter or major axis length;
        e.     Glass, including fused silica, phosphate glass, fluorophosphate glass, zirconium fluoride (ZrF4)
               (CAS 7783-64-4) and hafnium fluoride (HfF4) (CAS 13709-52-9) and having all of the
               following:
               1.     A hydroxyl ion (OH-) concentration of less than 5 ppm;
               2.     Integrated metallic purity levels of less than 1 ppm; and
                                                                                        -6
               3.     High homogeneity (index of refraction variance) less than 5 x 10 ;
                                                                                                       -5   -1
        f.     Synthetically produced diamond material with an absorption of less than 10 cm                     for
               wavelengths exceeding 200 nm but not exceeding 14 000 nm.
6C005   "Laser" materials as follows:
        a.     Synthetic crystalline "laser" host material in unfinished form as follows:
               1.     Titanium doped sapphire;
               2.     Not used.
        b.     Rare-earth-metal doped double-clad fibres having any of the following:
               1.     Nominal "laser" wavelength of 975 nm to 1 150 nm and having all of the following:
                      a.     Average core diameter equal to or greater than 25 µm; and
                      b.     Core 'Numerical Aperture' ('NA') less than 0,065; or
                      Note: 6C005.b.1. does not control double-clad fibres having an inner glass cladding
                            diameter exceeding 150 µm and not exceeding 300 µm.
               2.     Nominal "laser" wavelength exceeding 1 530 nm and having all of the following:
                      a.     Average core diameter equal to or greater than 20 µm; and
                      b.     Core 'Numerical Aperture' ('NA') less than 0,1.
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.     For the purposes of 6C005.b., the core 'Numerical Aperture' ('NA') is measured at the
                                          emission wavelengths of the fibre.
                                   2.     6C005.b. includes fibres assembled with end caps.

6D      Software
6D001   "Software" specially designed for the "development" or "production" of equipment specified in 6A004,
        6A005, 6A008 or 6B008.
6D002   "Software" specially designed for the "use" of equipment specified in 6A002.b., 6A008 or 6B008.




                                                                                                                       204
                            CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6D003   Other "software" as follows:
        a.    "Software" as follows:
              1.     "Software" specially designed for acoustic beam forming for the "real-time processing"
                     of acoustic data for passive reception using towed hydrophone arrays;
              2.     "Source code" for the "real-time processing" of acoustic data for passive reception using
                     towed hydrophone arrays;
              3.     "Software" specially designed for acoustic beam forming for "real-time processing" of
                     acoustic data for passive reception using bottom or bay cable systems;
              4.     "Source code" for "real-time processing" of acoustic data for passive reception using
                     bottom or bay cable systems;
              5.     "Software" or "source code", specially designed for all of the following:
                     a.    "Real-time processing" of acoustic data from sonar systems specified in
                           6A001.a.1.e.; and
                     b.    Automatically detecting, classifying and determining the location of divers or
                           swimmers;
                     N.B.    For diver detection "software" or "source code", specially designed or modified
                             for military use, SEE THE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        b.    Not used;
        c.    "Software" designed or modified for cameras incorporating "focal plane arrays" specified in
              6A002.a.3.f. and designed or modified to remove a frame rate restriction and allow the camera
              to exceed the frame rate specified in 6A003.b.4. Note 3.a.
        d.    "Software" specially designed to maintain the alignment and phasing of segmented mirror
              systems consisting of mirror segments having a diameter or major axis length equal to or larger
              than 1 m;
        e.    Not used;
        f.    "Software" as follows:
              1.     "Software" specially designed for magnetic and electric field "compensation systems" for
                     magnetic sensors designed to operate on mobile platforms;
              2.     "Software" specially designed for magnetic and electric field anomaly detection on
                     mobile platforms;
              3.     "Software" specially designed for "real-time processing" of electromagnetic data using
                     underwater electromagnetic receivers specified in 6A006.e.;
              4.     "Source code" for "real time processing" of electromagnetic data using underwater
                     electromagnetic receivers specified in 6A006.e.;
        g.    "Software" specially designed to correct motional influences of gravity meters or gravity
              gradiometers;
        h.    "Software" as follows:
              1.     Air Traffic Control (ATC) "software" application "programs" designed to be hosted on
                     general purpose computers located at Air Traffic Control centres and capable of accepting
                     radar target data from more than four primary radars;
              2.     "Software" for the design or "production" of radomes having all of the following:
                     a.      Specially designed to protect the electronically scanned array antennae specified
                             in 6A008.e.; and
                     b.      Resulting in an antenna pattern having an 'average side lobe level' more than 40 dB
                             below the peak of the main beam level.




                                                                                                                   205
                             CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

6D003 continued

                              Technical Note:
                              'Average side lobe level' in 6D003.h.2.b. is measured over the entire array
                              excluding the angular extent of the main beam and the first two side lobes on either
                              side of the main beam.


6D102   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of goods specified in 6A108.
6D103   "Software" which processes post-flight, recorded data, enabling determination of vehicle position
        throughout its flight path, specially designed or modified for 'missiles'.
        Technical Note:
        In 6D103 'missiles' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
6D203   "Software" specially designed to enhance or release the performance of cameras or imaging devices to
        meet the characteristics of 6A203.a. to 6A203.c.


6E      Technology
6E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of equipment, materials
        or "software" specified in 6A, 6B, 6C or 6D.
6E002   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of equipment or materials
        specified in 6A, 6B or 6C.
6E003   Other "technology" as follows:
        a.    "Technology" as follows:
              1.      "Technology" "required" for the coating and treatment of optical surfaces to achieve an
                      'optical thickness' uniformity of 99,5% or better for optical coatings 500 mm or more in
                      diameter or major axis length and with a total loss (absorption and scatter) of less than
                      5 x 10-3;
                      N.B.    See also 2E003.f.
                      Technical Note:
                      'Optical thickness' is the mathematical product of the index of refraction and the physical
                      thickness of the coating.
              2.      "Technology" for the fabrication of optics using single point diamond turning techniques
                      to produce surface finish "accuracies" of better than 10 nm rms on non-planar surfaces
                                      2
                      exceeding 0,5 m ;
        b.    "Technology" "required" for the "development", "production" or "use" of specially designed
              diagnostic instruments or targets in test facilities for "SHPL" testing or testing or evaluation of
              materials irradiated by "SHPL" beams;
6E101   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment or "software"
        specified in 6A002, 6A007.b. and .c., 6A008, 6A102, 6A107, 6A108, 6B108, 6D102 or 6D103.
        Note: 6E101 only controls "technology" for items specified in 6A002, 6A007 and 6A008 if the items
              were designed for airborne applications and are usable in "missiles".
6E201   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment specified in 6A003,
        6A005.a.2., 6A005.b.2., 6A005.b.3., 6A005.b.4., 6A005.b.6., 6A005.c.2., 6A005.d.3.c., 6A005.d.4.c.,
        6A202, 6A203, 6A205, 6A225 or 6A226.
        Note 1:       6E201 only controls "technology" for cameras specified in 6A003 if the cameras are also
                      specified by any of the control parameters of 6A203.




                                                                                                                     206
                         CATEGORY 6 - SENSORS AND LASERS

        Note 2:      6E201 only controls "technology” for lasers in 6A005.b.6. that are neodymium-doped
                     and specified by any of the control parameters of 6A205.f.
6E203   "Technology", in the form of codes or keys, to enhance or release the performance of cameras or
        imaging devices to meet the characteristics of 6A203.a. to 6A203.c.

7A001   Accelerometers as follows and specially designed components therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A101.
        N.B.   For angular or rotational accelerometers, see 7A001.b.
        a.     Linear accelerometers having any of the following:
               1.     Specified to function at linear acceleration levels less than or equal to 15 g and having
                      any of the following:
                      a.     A "bias" "stability" of less (better) than 130 micro g with respect to a fixed
                             calibration value over a period of one year; or
                      b.     A "scale factor" "stability" of less (better) than 130 ppm with respect to a fixed
                             calibration value over a period of one year;
               2.     Specified to function at linear acceleration levels exceeding 15 g but less than or equal to
                      100 g and having all of the following:
                      a.     A "bias" "repeatability" of less (better) than 1 250 micro g over a period of one
                             year; and
                      b.     A "scale factor" "repeatability" of less (better) than 1 250 ppm over a period of
                             one year; or
               3.     Designed for use in inertial navigation or guidance systems and specified to function at
                      linear acceleration levels exceeding 100 g;
               Note: 7A001.a.1. and 7A001.a.2. do not control accelerometers limited to measurement of only
                     vibration or shock.
        b.     Angular or rotational accelerometers, specified to function at linear acceleration levels exceeding
               100 g.
7A002   Gyros or angular rate sensors, having any of the following and specially designed components therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A102.
        N.B.   For angular or rotational accelerometers, see 7A001.b.
        a.     Specified to function at linear acceleration levels less than or equal to 100 g and having any of
               the following:
               1.     An angular rate range of less than 500 degrees per second and having any of the following:
                      a.     A "bias" "stability" of less (better) than 0,5 degree per hour, when measured in a
                             1 g environment over a period of one month, and with respect to a fixed calibration
                             value; or
                      b.     An "angle random walk" of less (better) than or equal to 0,0035 degree per square
                             root hour; or
                      Note: 7A002.a.1.b. does not control "spinning mass gyros".
               2.     An angular rate range greater than or equal to 500 degrees per second and having any of
                      the following:
                      a.     A "bias" "stability" of less (better) than 4 degrees per hour, when measured in a 1
                             g environment over a period of three minutes, and with respect to a fixed
                             calibration value; or

207
                                                                                                                     208
                       CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

                      b.      An "angle random walk" of less (better) than or equal to 0,1 degree per square root
                              hour; or
7A002 continued

                      Note: 7A002.a.2.b. does not control "spinning mass gyros".
        b.     Specified to function at linear acceleration levels exceeding 100 g.
7A003   'Inertial measurement equipment or systems', having any of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A103.
        Note 1:       'Inertial measurement equipment or systems' incorporate accelerometers or gyroscopes
                      to measure changes in velocity and orientation in order to determine or maintain heading
                      or position without requiring an external reference once aligned. 'Inertial measurement
                      equipment or systems' include:
                                          –       Attitude and Heading Reference Systems (AHRSs);
                                          –       Gyrocompasses;
                                          –       Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs);
                                          –       Inertial Navigation Systems (INSs);
                                          –       Inertial Reference Systems (IRSs);
                                          –       Inertial Reference Units (IRUs).
        Note 2:         7A003 does not control 'inertial measurement equipment or systems' which are certified
                        for use on "civil aircraft" by civil aviation authorities of one or more EU Member States
                        or Wassenaar Arrangement Participating States.
        Technical Note:
        'Positional aiding references' independently provide position, and include:
                                   a.      "Satellite navigation system";
                                   b.      "Data-Based Referenced Navigation" ("DBRN").
        a.      Designed for "aircraft", land vehicles or vessels, providing position without the use of 'positional
                aiding references', and having any of the following "accuracies" subsequent to normal alignment:
               1.     0,8 nautical miles per hour (nm/hr) "Circular Error Probable" ("CEP") rate or less (better);
               2.     0,5 % distanced travelled "CEP" or less (better); or
               3.     Total drift of 1 nautical mile "CEP" or less (better) in a 24 hr period;
               Technical Note:
               The performance parameters in 7A003.a.1., 7A003.a.2. and 7A003.a.3. typically apply to
               'inertial measurement equipment or systems' designed for "aircraft", vehicles and vessels,
               respectively. These parameters result from the utilisation of specialised non-positional aiding
               references (e.g., altimeter, odometer, velocity log). As a consequence, the specified performance
               values cannot be readily converted between these parameters. Equipment designed for multiple
               platforms are evaluated against each applicable entry 7A003.a.1., 7A003.a.2., or 7A003.a.3.
        b.     Designed for "aircraft", land vehicles or vessels, with an embedded 'positional aiding reference'
               and providing position after loss of all 'positional aiding references' for a period of up to
               4 minutes, having an "accuracy" of less (better) than 10 meters "CEP";
               Technical Note:
               7A003.b. refers to systems in which 'inertial measurement equipment or systems' and other
               independent 'positional aiding references' are built into a single unit (i.e., embedded) in order
               to achieve improved performance.
        c.     Designed for "aircraft", land vehicles or vessels, providing heading or True North determination
               and having any of the following:
               1.     A maximum operating angular rate less (lower) than 500 deg/s and a heading "accuracy"
                      without the use of 'positional aiding references' equal to or less (better) than 0,07 deg
                      sec(Lat) (equivalent to 6 arc minutes rms at 45 degrees latitude); or

 
              2.    A maximum operating angular rate equal to or greater (higher) than 500 deg/s and a
                     heading "accuracy" without the use of 'positional aiding references' equal to or less
                            (better) than 0,2 deg sec(Lat) (equivalent to 17 arc minutes rms at 45 degrees latitude); or
       d.   Providing acceleration measurements or angular rate measurements, in more than one dimension,
       and having any of the following:

 

               1.     Performance specified in 7A001 or 7A002 along any axis, without the use of any aiding
                      references; or
               2.     Being "space-qualified" and providing angular rate measurements having an "angle
                      random walk" along any axis of less (better) than or equal to 0,1 degree per square root
                      hour.
                      Note: 7A003.d.2. does not control 'inertial measurement equipment or systems' that
                            contain "spinning mass gyros" as the only type of gyro.
7A004   'Star trackers' and components therefor, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A104.
        a.     'Star trackers' with a specified azimuth "accuracy" of equal to or less (better) than 20 seconds of
               arc throughout the specified lifetime of the equipment;
        b.     Components specially designed for equipment specified in 7A004.a. as follows:
               1.     Optical heads or baffles;
               2.     Data processing units.
        Technical Note:
        'Star trackers' are also referred to as stellar attitude sensors or gyro-astro compasses.
7A005   "Satellite navigation system" receiving equipment having any of the following and specially designed
        components therefor:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A105.
        N.B.   For equipment specially designed for military use, SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        a.     Employing a decryption algorithm specially designed or modified for government use to access
               the ranging code for position and time; or
        b.     Employing 'adaptive antenna systems'.
               Note: 7A005.b. does not control "satellite navigation system" receiving equipment that only
                     uses components designed to filter, switch, or combine signals from multiple omni-
                     directional antennae that do not implement adaptive antenna techniques.
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 7A005.b. 'adaptive antenna systems' dynamically generate one or more
               spatial nulls in an antenna array pattern by signal processing in the time domain or frequency
               domain.
7A006   Airborne altimeters operating at frequencies other than 4,2 to 4,4 GHz inclusive and having any of the
        following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7A106.
        a.     'Power management'; or
        b.     Using phase shift key modulation.
               Technical Note:
               'Power management' is changing the transmitted power of the altimeter signal so that received
               power at the "aircraft" altitude is always at the minimum necessary to determine the altitude.
7A008   Underwater sonar navigation systems using doppler velocity or correlation velocity logs integrated with
        a heading source and having a positioning "accuracy" of equal to or less (better) than 3% of distance
        travelled "Circular Error Probable" ("CEP") and specially designed components therefor.
        Note: 7A008 does not control systems specially designed for installation on surface vessels or systems
              requiring acoustic beacons or buoys to provide positioning data.




                                                                                                                     211
                       CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

        N.B.   See 6A001.a. for acoustic systems, and 6A001.b. for correlation-velocity and Doppler-velocity
               sonar log equipment.
               See 8A002 for other marine systems.
7A101   Linear accelerometers, other than those specified in 7A001, designed for use in inertial navigation
        systems or in guidance systems of all types, usable in 'missiles', having all of the following
        characteristics, and specially designed components therefor:
        a.     A "bias" "repeatability" of less (better) than 1 250 micro g; and
        b.     A "scale factor" "repeatability" of less (better) than 1 250 ppm;
        Note: 7A101 does not control accelerometers specially designed and developed as Measurement While
              Drilling (MWD) Sensors for use in downhole well service operations.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    In 7A101 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable
                                          of a range exceeding 300 km;
                                   2.    In 7A101 the measurement of "bias" and "scale factor" refers to one sigma standard deviation
                                          with respect to a fixed calibration over a period of one year;
7A102   All types of gyros, other than those specified in 7A002, usable in 'missiles', with a rated "drift rate"
        'stability' of less than 0,5° (1 sigma or rms) per hour in a 1 g environment and specially designed
        components therefor.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    In 7A102 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable
                                          of a range exceeding 300 km.
                                   2.    In 7A102 'stability' is defined as a measure of the ability of a specific mechanism or performance
                                          coefficient to remain invariant when continuously exposed to a fixed operating condition (IEEE
                                          STD 528-2001 paragraph 2.247).
7A103   Instrumentation, navigation equipment and systems, other than those specified in 7A003, as follows;
        and specially designed components therefor:
        a.     'Inertial measurement equipment or systems', using accelerometers or gyros as follows:
               1.     Accelerometers specified in 7A001.a.3., 7A001.b. or 7A101 or gyros specified in 7A002
                      or 7A102; or
               Note: 7A103.a.1. does not control equipment containing accelerometers specified in 7A001.a.3.
                     that are designed to measure vibration or shock.
               2.     Accelerometers specified in 7A001.a.1. or 7A001.a.2., designed for use in inertial
                      navigation systems or in guidance systems of all types, and usable in 'missiles';
               Note: 7A103.a.2. does not control equipment containing accelerometers specified in 7A001.a.1.
                     or 7A001.a.2. where such accelerometers are specially designed and developed as MWD
                     (Measurement While Drilling) sensors for use in down-hole well services operations
        Technical Note:
        'Inertial measurement equipment or systems' specified in 7A103.a. incorporate accelerometers or gyros
        to measure changes in velocity and orientation in order to determine or maintain heading or position
        without requiring an external reference once aligned.

        Note: 'Inertial measurement equipment or systems' in 7A103.a. include:
                                          -       Attitude and Heading Reference Systems (AHRSs);
                                          -       Gyrocompasses;
                                          -       Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs);
                                          -       Inertial Navigation Systems (INSs);
                                          -       Inertial Reference Systems (IRSs);
                                          -       Inertial Reference Units (IRUs).

        b.     Integrated flight instrument systems which include gyrostabilisers or automatic pilots, designed
               or modified for use in 'missiles';


                                                                                                                   212
                        CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

         c.     'Integrated navigation systems', designed or modified for 'missiles' and capable of providing a
                navigational accuracy of 200 m 'CEP' or less;
                Technical Notes:
                                          1.    An 'integrated navigation system' typically incorporates the following components:

                                                 a.     An inertial measurement device (e.g., an attitude and heading reference system,
                                                        inertial reference unit, or inertial navigation system);
                                                 b.     One or more external sensors used to update the position and/or velocity, either
                                                        periodically or continuously throughout the flight (e.g., satellite navigation
                                                        receiver, radar altimeter, and/or Doppler radar); and
                                                 c.     Integration hardware and software;
                                          2.     In 7A103.c. 'CEP' (Circular Error Probable or Circle of Equal Probability) is a measure
                                                 of accuracy, defined as the radius of the circle inside of which there is a 50% probability
                                                 of being located.
         d.     Three axis magnetic heading sensors, designed or modified to be integrated with flight control
                and navigation systems, other than those specified in 6A006, having all of the following
                characteristics, and specially designed components therefor:
                1.     Internal tilt compensation in pitch (± 90 degrees) and roll (± 180 degrees) axes; and
                2.     Azimuthal accuracy better (less) than 0,5 degrees rms at latitude of ± 80 degrees,
                       reference to local magnetic field.
                Note: Flight control and navigation systems in 7A103.d. include gyrostabilizers, automatic
                      pilots and inertial navigation systems.
         Technical Note:
         In 7A103 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
         range exceeding 300 km.

7A104    Gyro-astro compasses and other devices, other than those specified in 7A004, which derive position or
         orientation by means of automatically tracking celestial bodies or satellites and specially designed
         components therefor.
7A105    Receiving equipment for 'navigation satellite systems', other than those specified in 7A005, having any
         of the following characteristics, and specially designed components therefor:
         a.     Designed or modified for use in space launch vehicles specified in 9A004, sounding rockets
                specified in 9A104 or unmanned aerial vehicles specified in 9A012 or 9A112.a.; or
         b.     Designed or modified for airborne applications and having any of the following:
                1.     Capable of providing navigation information at speeds in excess of 600 m/s;
                2.     Employing decryption, designed or modified for military or governmental services, to
                       gain access to a 'navigation satellite system' secured signal/data; or
                3.     Being specially designed to employ anti-jam features (e.g., null steering antenna or
                       electronically steerable antenna) to function in an environment of active or passive
                       countermeasures.
                Note: 7A105.b.2. and 7A105.b.3. do not control equipment designed for commercial, civil or
                      'Safety of Life' (e.g., data integrity, flight safety) 'navigation satellite system' services.
         Technical Note:
         In 7A105, 'navigation satellite system' includes Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS; e.g., GPS,
         GLONASS, Galileo or BeiDou) and Regional Navigation Satellite Systems (RNSS; e.g., NavIC, QZSS).




                                                                                                                       213
                        CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

7A106    Altimeters, other than those specified in 7A006, of radar or laser radar type, designed or modified for
         use in space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
7A115    Passive sensors for determining bearing to specific electromagnetic source (direction finding
         equipment) or terrain characteristics, designed or modified for use in space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
        Note: Equipment specified in 7A105, 7A106, and 7A115 includes the following:
                                          a.    Terrain contour mapping equipment;
                                          b.    Scene mapping and correlation (both digital and analogue) equipment;
                                          c.    Doppler navigation radar equipment;
                                          d.     Passive interferometer equipment;
                                          e.     Imaging sensor equipment (both active and passive).
7A116    Flight control systems and servo valves, as follows; designed or modified for use in space launch
         vehicles specified in 9A004, sounding rockets specified in 9A104 or "missiles".
         a.     Pneumatic, hydraulic, mechanical, electro-optical, or electro-mechanical flight control systems
                (including fly-by-wire and fly-by-light systems);
         b.     Attitude control equipment;
         c.     Flight control servo valves designed or modified for the systems specified in 7A116.a. or
                7A116.b., and designed or modified to operate in a vibration environment greater than 10 g rms
                between 20 Hz and 2 kHz.
         Note: For conversion of manned aircraft to operate as "missiles", 7A116 includes the
               systems,equipment and valves designed or modiﬁed to enable operation of manned aircraft as
               unmanned aerial vehicles.
7A117    "Guidance sets", usable in "missiles" capable of achieving system accuracy of 3,33% or less of the range
         (e.g., a 'CEP' of 10 km or less at a range of 300 km).
         Technical Note:
         In 7A117 'CEP' (Circular Error Probable or Circle of Equal Probability) is a measure of accuracy,
         defined as the radius of the circle centred at the target, at a specific range, in which 50% of the payloads
         impact.


7B       Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
7B001    Test, calibration or alignment equipment, specially designed for equipment specified in 7A.
         Note: 7B001 does not control test, calibration or alignment equipment for 'Maintenance Level I' or
               'Maintenance Level II'.
         Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Maintenance Level I'
                                          The failure of an inertial navigation unit is detected on the "aircraft" by indications from the
                                          Control and Display Unit (CDU) or by the status message from the corresponding sub-system.
                                          By following the manufacturer's manual, the cause of the failure may be localised at the level of
                                          the malfunctioning Line Replaceable Unit (LRU). The operator then removes the LRU and
                                          replaces it with a spare.
                                   2.     'Maintenance Level II'
                                          The defective LRU is sent to the maintenance workshop (the manufacturer's or that of the
                                          operator responsible for level II maintenance). At the maintenance workshop, the malfunctioning
                                          LRU is tested by various appropriate means to verify and localise the defective Shop Replaceable
                                          Assembly (SRA) module responsible for the failure. This SRA is removed and replaced by an
                                          operative spare. The defective SRA (or possibly the complete LRU) is then shipped to the
                                          manufacturer. 'Maintenance Level II' does not include the disassembly or repair of controlled
                                          accelerometers or gyro sensors.


7B002   Equipment specially designed to characterize mirrors for ring "laser" gyros, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 7B102.
        a.     Scatterometers having a measurement "accuracy" of 10 ppm or less (better);
        b.     Profilometers having a measurement "accuracy" of 0,5 nm (5 angstrom) or less (better).


7B003   Equipment specially designed for the "production" of equipment specified in 7A.
        Note: 7B003 includes:
                                   –     Gyro tuning test stations;
                                   –     Gyro dynamic balance stations;
                                   –     Gyro run-in/motor test stations;
                                   –     Gyro evacuation and fill stations;
                                   –     Centrifuge fixtures for gyro bearings;
                                   –     Accelerometer axis align stations;
                                   –     Fibre optic gyro coil winding machines.
7B102   Reflectometers specially designed to characterise mirrors, for "laser" gyros, having a measurement
        accuracy of 50 ppm or less (better).
7B103   "Production facilities" and "production equipment" as follows:
        a.      "Production facilities" specially designed for equipment specified in 7A117;
        b.      "Production equipment", and other test, calibration and alignment equipment, other than that
                specified in 7B001 to 7B003, designed or modified to be used with equipment specified in 7A.

7D      Software
7D001   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "production" of equipment
        specified in 7A or 7B.
7D002   "Source code" for the operation or maintenance of any inertial navigation equipment, including inertial
        equipment not specified in 7A003 or 7A004, or Attitude and Heading Reference Systems ('AHRS').
        Note: 7D002 does not control "source code" for the "use" of gimballed 'AHRS'.
        Technical Note:
        'AHRS' generally differ from Inertial Navigation Systems (INS) in that an 'AHRS' provides attitude and
        heading information and normally does not provide the acceleration, velocity and position information
        associated with an INS.
7D003   Other "software" as follows:
        a.      "Software" specially designed or modified to improve the operational performance or reduce the
                navigational error of systems to the levels specified in 7A003, 7A004 or 7A008;
        b.      "Source code" for hybrid integrated systems which improves the operational performance or
                reduces the navigational error of systems to the level specified in 7A003 or 7A008 by
                continuously combining heading data with any of the following:
                1.     Doppler radar or sonar velocity data;
                2.     "Satellite navigation system" reference data; or
                3.     Data from "Data-Based Referenced Navigation" ("DBRN") systems;
        c.      Not used;
        d.      Not used;
        e.      Computer-Aided-Design (CAD) "software" specially designed for the "development" of "active
                flight control systems", helicopter multi-axis fly-by-wire or fly-by-light controllers or helicopter
                "circulation controlled anti-torque or circulation-controlled direction control systems", whose
                "technology" is specified in 7E004.b.1., 7E004.b.3. to 7E004.b.5., 7E004.b.7., 7E004.b.8.,
                7E004.c.1. or 7E004.c.2.



                                                                                                                       216
CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS




                                       217
                       CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

7D004   "Source code" incorporating "development" "technology" specified in 7E004.a.2., 7E004.a.3.,
        7E004.a.5., 7E004.a.6. or 7E004.b., for any of the following:
        a.     Digital flight management systems for "total control of flight";
        b.     Integrated propulsion and flight control systems;
        c.     "Fly-by-wire systems" or "fly-by-light systems";
        d.     Fault-tolerant or self-reconfiguring "active flight control systems";
        e.     Not used;
        f.     Air data systems based on surface static data; or
        g.     Three dimensional displays.
        Note: 7D004. does not control "source code" associated with common computer elements and utilities
              (e.g., input signal acquisition, output signal transmission, computer program and data loading,
              built-in test, task scheduling mechanisms) not providing a specific flight control system function.
7D005   "Software" specially designed to decrypt "satellite navigation system" ranging code designed for
        government use.
7D101   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of equipment specified in 7A001 to 7A006, 7A101 to 7A106, 7A115, 7A116.a., 7A116.b., 7B001, 7B002, 7B003, 7B102 or 7B103.
7D102   Integration "software" as follows:
        a.     Integration "software" for the equipment specified in 7A103.b.;
        b.     Integration "software" specially designed for the equipment specified in 7A003 or 7A103.a.;
        c.     Integration "software" designed or modified for the equipment specified in 7A103.c.
               Note: A common form of integration "software" employs Kalman filtering.
7D103   "Software" specially designed for modelling or simulation of the "guidance sets" specified in 7A117 or
        for their design integration with the space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets
        specified in 9A104.
        Note: "Software" specified in 7D103 remains controlled when combined with specially designed
              hardware specified in 4A102.
7D104   "Software" specially designed or modified for the operation or maintenance of "guidance sets" specified
        in 7A117.
        Note: 7D104 includes ″software″, specially designed or modified to enhance the performance of
              ″guidance sets″ to achieve or exceed the accuracy specified in 7A117.


7E      Technology
7E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of equipment or
        "software", specified in 7A, 7B, 7D001, 7D002, 7D003, 7D005 and 7D101 to 7D103.
        Note: 7E001 includes key management "technology" exclusively for equipment specified in 7A005.a.
7E002   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of equipment specified
        in 7A or 7B.
7E003   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the repair, refurbishing or overhaul of
        equipment specified in 7A001 to 7A004.
        Note: 7E003 does not control "technology" for maintenance, directly associated with calibration,
              removal or replacement of damaged or unserviceable LRUs and SRAs of a "civil aircraft" as
              described in 'Maintenance Level I' or 'Maintenance Level II'.
               N.B.   See Technical Notes to 7B001.



                                                                                                                    218
                         CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

7E004      Other "technology" as follows:
           a.    "Technology" for the "development" or "production" of any of the following:
                 1.     Not used;
                 2.     Air data systems based on surface static data only, i.e., which dispense with conventional
                        air data probes;
                 3.     Three dimensional displays for "aircraft";
                 4.     Not used;
                 5.     Electric actuators (i.e., electromechanical, electrohydrostatic and integrated actuator
                        package) specially designed for 'primary flight control';
                        Technical Note:
                        'Primary flight control' is "aircraft" stability or manoeuvring control using force/moment
                        generators, i.e. aerodynamic control surfaces or propulsive thrust vectoring.
                 6.     'Flight control optical sensor array' specially designed for implementing "active flight
                        control systems"; or
                        Technical Note:
                        A 'flight control optical sensor array' is a network of distributed optical sensors, using
                        "laser" beams, to provide real-time flight control data for on-board processing.
                 7.     "DBRN" systems designed to navigate underwater, using sonar or gravity databases, that
                        provide a positioning "accuracy" equal to or less (better) than 0,4 nautical miles;
           b.    "Development" "technology", as follows, for "active flight control systems" (including "fly-by-
                 wire systems" or "fly-by-light systems"):
                 1.     Photonic-based "technology" for sensing "aircraft" or flight control component state,
                        transferring flight control data, or commanding actuator movement, "required" for "fly-
                        by-light systems" "active flight control systems";
                 2.     Not used;
                 3.     Real-time algorithms to analyse component sensor information to predict and
                        preemptively mitigate impending degradation and failures of components within an
                        "active flight control system";
7E004.b.         continued

                        Note: 7E004.b.3. does not control algorithms for purpose of off-line maintenance.
                 4.     Real-time algorithms to identify component failures and reconfigure force and moment
                        controls to mitigate "active flight control system" degradations and failures;
                        Note: 7E004.b.4. does not control algorithms for the elimination of fault effects through
                              comparison of redundant data sources, or off-line pre-planned responses to
                              anticipated failures.
                 5.     Integration of digital flight control, navigation and propulsion control data, into a digital
                        flight management system for "total control of flight";
                        Note: 7E004.b.5. does not control:
                                                 a.     "Technology" for integration of digital flight control, navigation and
                                                        propulsion control data, into a digital flight management system for 'flight
                                                        path optimisation';
                                                 b.     "Technology" for "aircraft" flight instrument systems integrated solely for
                                                        VOR, DME, ILS or MLS navigation or approaches.
                                                 Technical Note:
                                                        'Flight path optimisation' is a procedure that minimises deviations from a four-
                                                        dimensional (space and time) desired trajectory based on maximising
                                                        performance or effectiveness for mission tasks.
              6.     Not used;
              7.     "Technology" "required" for deriving the functional requirements for "fly-by-wire
                     systems" having all of the following:
                     a.     'Inner-loop' airframe stability controls requiring loop closure rates of 40 Hz or
                            greater; and
                            Technical Note:
                            'Inner-loop' refers to functions of "active flight control systems" that automate
                            airframe stability controls.
                     b.     Having any of the following:
                            1.     Corrects an aerodynamically unstable airframe, measured at any point in
                                   the design flight envelope, that would lose recoverable control if not
                                   corrected within 0,5 seconds;
                            2.     Couples controls in two or more axes while compensating for 'abnormal
                                   changes in aircraft state';
                                   Technical Note:
                                   'Abnormal changes in aircraft state' include in-flight structural damage,
                                   loss of engine thrust, disabled control surface, or destabilizing shifts in
                                   cargo load.
                            3.     Performs the functions specified in 7E004.b.5.; or
                                   Note: 7E004.b.7.b.3. does not control autopilots.
                            4.     Enables "aircraft" to have stable controlled flight, other than during take-
                                   off or landing, at greater than 18 degrees angle of attack, 15 degrees side
                                   slip, 15 degrees/second pitch or yaw rate, or 90 degrees/second roll rate;
              8.     "Technology" "required" for deriving the functional requirements for "fly-by-wire
                     systems" to achieve all of the following:
                     a.     No loss of control of the "aircraft" in the event of a consecutive sequence of any
                            two individual faults within the "fly-by-wire system"; and
                     b.     Probability of loss of control of the "aircraft" being less (better) than 1 x 10 -9
                            failures per flight hour;
              Note: 7E004.b. does not control "technology" associated with common computer elements and
                     utilities (e.g., input signal acquisition, output signal transmission, computer program and
                     data loading, built-in test, task scheduling mechanisms) not providing a specific flight
                     control system function.
       c.   "Technology" for the "development" of helicopter systems, as follows:
              1.     Multi-axis fly-by-wire or fly-by-light controllers, which combine the functions of at least
                     two of the following into one controlling element:
                     a.     Collective controls;
                     b.     Cyclic controls;
                     c.     Yaw controls;
              2.     "Circulation-controlled anti-torque or circulation-controlled direction control systems";
              3.     Rotor blades incorporating 'variable geometry airfoils', for use in systems using individual
                     blade control.
                     Technical Note:



                                                                                                           220
                      CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

                     'Variable geometry airfoils' use trailing edge flaps or tabs, or leading edge slats or
                     pivoted nose droop, the position of which can be controlled in flight.
7E101   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of equipment specified in 7A001
        to 7A006, 7A101 to 7A106, 7A115 to 7A117, 7B001, 7B002, 7B003, 7B102, 7B103, 7D101 to 7D103.




                                                                                                              221
                      CATEGORY 7 - NAVIGATION AND AVIONICS

7E102   "Technology" for protection of avionics and electrical subsystems against electromagnetic pulse (EMP)
        and electromagnetic interference (EMI) hazards, from external sources, as follows:
        a.    Design "technology" for shielding systems;
        b.    Design "technology" for the configuration of hardened electrical circuits and subsystems;
        c.    Design "technology" for the determination of hardening criteria of 7E102.a. and 7E102.b.
7E104   "Technology" for the integration of the flight control, guidance, and propulsion data into a flight
        management system for optimisation of rocket system trajectory.




                                                                                                                222
                                     CATEGORY 8 - MARINE



CATEGORY 8 - MARINE
8A      Systems, Equipment and Components
8A001   Submersible vehicles and surface vessels, as follows:
        N.B.   For the control status of equipment for submersible vehicles, see:
               –      Category 6 for sensors;
               –      Categories 7 and 8 for navigation equipment;
               –      Category 8A for underwater equipment.
        a.     Manned, tethered submersible vehicles designed to operate at depths exceeding 1 000 m;
        b.     Manned, untethered submersible vehicles having any of the following:
               1.     Designed to 'operate autonomously' and having a lifting capacity of all of the following:
                      a.     10% or more of their weight in air; and
                      b.     15 kN or more;
               2.     Designed to operate at depths exceeding 1 000 m; or
               3.     Having all of the following:
                      a.     Designed to continuously 'operate autonomously' for 10 hours or more; and
                      b.     'Range' of 25 nautical miles or more;
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purposes of 8A001.b., 'operate autonomously' means fully submerged, without
                                          snorkel, all systems working and cruising at minimum speed at which the submersible
                                          can safely control its depth dynamically by using its depth planes only, with no need for
                                          a support vessel or support base on the surface, sea-bed or shore, and containing a
                                          propulsion system for submerged or surface use.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 8A001.b., 'range' means half the maximum distance a submersible
                                          vehicle can 'operate autonomously'.
        c.     Unmanned submersible vehicles, as follows:
               1.     Unmanned submersible vehicles having any of the following:
                      a.     Designed for deciding a course relative to any geographical reference without real-
                             time human assistance;
                      b.     Acoustic data or command link; or
                      c.     Optical data or command link exceeding 1 000 m;
               2.     Unmanned submersible vehicles, not specified in 8A001.c.1, having all of the following:
                      a.     Designed to operate with a tether;
                      b.     Designed to operate at depths exceeding 1 000 m;
                      c.     Having any of the following:
                             1.     Designed for self-propelled manoeuvre using propulsion motors or
                                    thrusters specified in 8A002.a.2.; or
                             2.     Fibre optic data link;
        d.     Not used;
        e.     Ocean salvage systems with a lifting capacity exceeding 5 MN for salvaging objects from depths
               exceeding 250 m and having any of the following:
               1.     Dynamic positioning systems capable of position keeping within 20 m of a given point
                      provided by the navigation system; or


                                                                                                                   223
                                     CATEGORY 8 - MARINE

              2.     Seafloor navigation and navigation integration systems, for depths exceeding 1 000 m
                     and with positioning "accuracies" to within 10 m of a predetermined point;
8A001 continued

        f.    Not used;
        g.    Not used;
        h.    Not used;
        i.    Not used.


8A002   Marine systems, equipment and components, as follows:
        Note: For underwater communications systems, see Category 5, Part 1 - Telecommunications.
        a.    Systems, equipment and components, specially designed or modified for submersible vehicles
              and designed to operate at depths exceeding 1 000 m, as follows:
              1.     Pressure housings or pressure hulls with a maximum inside chamber diameter exceeding
                     1,5 m;
              2.     Direct current propulsion motors or thrusters;
              3.     Umbilical cables, and connectors therefor, using optical fibre and having synthetic
                     strength members;
              4.     Components manufactured from material specified in 8C001;
                     Technical Note:
                     The objective of 8A002.a.4. should not be defeated by the export of 'syntactic foam'
                     specified in 8C001 when an intermediate stage of manufacture has been performed and
                     it is not yet in the final component form.
        b.    Systems specially designed or modified for the automated control of the motion of submersible
              vehicles specified in 8A001, using navigation data, having closed loop servo-controls and having
              any of the following:
              1.     Enabling a vehicle to move within 10 m of a predetermined point in the water column;
              2.     Maintaining the position of the vehicle within 10 m of a predetermined point in the water
                     column; or
              3.     Maintaining the position of the vehicle within 10 m while following a cable on or under
                     the seabed;
        c.    Fibre optic pressure hull penetrators;
        d.    Underwater vision systems having all of the following:
              1.     Specially designed or modified for remote operation with an underwater vehicle; and
              2.     Employing any of the following techniques to minimise the effects of back scatter:
                     a.     Range-gated illuminators; or
                     b.     Range-gated laser systems;
        e.    Not used;
        f.    Not used;
        g.    Light systems specially designed or modified for underwater use, as follows:
              1.     Stroboscopic light systems capable of a light output energy of more than 300 J per flash
                     and a flash rate of more than 5 flashes per second;
              2.     Argon arc light systems specially designed for use below 1 000 m;



                                                                                                                 224
                                      CATEGORY 8 - MARINE

           h.   "Robots" specially designed for underwater use, controlled by using a dedicated computer and
                having any of the following:
                1.    Systems that control the "robot" using information from sensors which measure force or
                      torque applied to an external object, distance to an external object, or tactile sense
                      between the "robot" and an external object; or
8A002.h.        continued

                2.    The ability to exert a force of 250 N or more or a torque of 250 Nm or more and using
                      titanium based alloys or "composite" "fibrous or filamentary materials" in their structural
                      members;
           i.   Remotely controlled articulated manipulators specially designed or modified for use with
                submersible vehicles and having any of the following:
                1.    Systems which control the manipulator using information from sensors which measure
                      any of the following:
                      a.     Torque or force applied to an external object; or
                      b.     Tactile sense between the manipulator and an external object; or
                2.    Controlled by proportional master-slave techniques and having 5 degrees of 'freedom of
                      movement' or more;
                      Technical Note:
                      Only functions having proportionally related motion control using positional feedback
                      are counted when determining the number of degrees of 'freedom of movement'.
           j.   Air independent power systems specially designed for underwater use, as follows:
                1.    Brayton or Rankine cycle engine air independent power systems having any of the
                      following:
                      a.     Chemical scrubber or absorber systems, specially designed to remove carbon
                             dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulates from recirculated engine exhaust;
                      b.     Systems specially designed to use a monoatomic gas;
                      c.     Devices or enclosures, specially designed for underwater noise reduction in
                             frequencies below 10 kHz, or special mounting devices for shock mitigation; or
                      d.     Systems having all of the following:
                             1.     Specially designed to pressurise the products of reaction or for fuel
                                    reformation;
                             2.     Specially designed to store the products of the reaction; and
                             3.     Specially designed to discharge the products of the reaction against a
                                    pressure of 100 kPa or more;
                2.    Diesel cycle engine air independent systems having all of the following:
                      a.     Chemical scrubber or absorber systems, specially designed to remove carbon
                             dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulates from recirculated engine exhaust;
                      b.     Systems specially designed to use a monoatomic gas;
                      c.     Devices or enclosures, specially designed for underwater noise reduction in
                             frequencies below 10 kHz, or special mounting devices for shock mitigation; and
                      d.     Specially designed exhaust systems that do not exhaust continuously the products
                             of combustion;
                3.    "Fuel cell" air independent power systems with an output exceeding 2 kW and having any
                      of the following:




                                                                                                                    225
                                    CATEGORY 8 - MARINE

8A002.j. 3.    continued

                     a.     Devices or enclosures, specially designed for underwater noise reduction in
                            frequencies below 10 kHz, or special mounting devices for shock mitigation; or
                     b.     Systems having all of the following:
                            1.     Specially designed to pressurise the products of reaction or for fuel
                                   reformation;
                            2.     Specially designed to store the products of the reaction; and
                            3.     Specially designed to discharge the products of the reaction against a
                                   pressure of 100 kPa or more;
               4.    Stirling cycle engine air independent power systems having all of the following:
                     a.     Devices or enclosures, specially designed for underwater noise reduction in
                            frequencies below 10 kHz, or special mounting devices for shock mitigation; and
                     b.     Specially designed exhaust systems which discharge the products of combustion
                            against a pressure of 100 kPa or more;
          k.   Not used;
          l.   Not used;
          m.   Not used;
          n.   Not used;
          o.   Propellers, power transmission systems, power generation systems and noise reduction systems,
               as follows:
               1.    Not used
               2.    Water-screw propeller, power generation systems or transmission systems, designed for
                     use on vessels, as follows:
                     a.     Controllable-pitch propellers and hub assemblies, rated at more than 30 MW;
                     b.     Internally liquid-cooled electric propulsion engines with a power output exceeding
                            2,5 MW;
                     c.     "Superconductive" propulsion engines or permanent magnet electric propulsion
                            engines, with a power output exceeding 0,1 MW;
                     d.     Power transmission shaft systems incorporating "composite" material components
                            and capable of transmitting more than 2 MW;
                     e.     Ventilated or base-ventilated propeller systems, rated at more than 2,5 MW;
               3.    Noise reduction systems designed for use on vessels of 1 000 tonnes displacement or
                     more, as follows:
                     a.     Systems that attenuate underwater noise at frequencies below 500 Hz and consist
                            of compound acoustic mounts for the acoustic isolation of diesel engines, diesel
                            generator sets, gas turbines, gas turbine generator sets, propulsion motors or
                            propulsion reduction gears, specially designed for sound or vibration isolation and
                            having an intermediate mass exceeding 30% of the equipment to be mounted;
                     b.     'Active noise reduction or cancellation systems' or magnetic bearings, specially
                            designed for power transmission systems;
                            Technical Note:
                            'Active noise reduction or cancellation systems' incorporate electronic control
                            systems capable of actively reducing equipment vibration by the generation of
                            anti-noise or anti-vibration signals directly to the source.




                                                                                                                  226
                                      CATEGORY 8 - MARINE

8A002 continued

        p.     Pumpjet propulsion systems having all of the following:
               1.     Power output exceeding 2,5 MW; and
               2.     Using divergent nozzle and flow conditioning vane techniques to improve propulsive
                      efficiency or reduce propulsion-generated underwater-radiated noise;
        q.     Underwater swimming and diving equipment as follows:
               1.     Closed circuit rebreathers;
               2.     Semi-closed circuit rebreathers;
               Note: 8A002.q. does not control individual rebreathers for personal use when accompanying
                     their users.
               N.B.   For equipment and devices specially designed for military use, SEE THE MILITARY
                      GOODS CONTROLS.
        r.     Diver deterrent acoustic systems specially designed or modified to disrupt divers and having a
               sound pressure level equal to or exceeding 190 dB (reference 1 μPa at 1 m) at frequencies of 200
               Hz and below.
               Note 1:       8A002.r. does not control diver deterrent systems based on underwater explosive
                             devices, air guns or combustible sources.
               Note 2:       8A002.r. includes diver deterrent acoustic systems that use spark gap sources, also
                             known as plasma sound sources.
8B      Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
8B001   Water tunnels designed to have a background noise of less than 100 dB (reference 1 µPa, 1 Hz) within
        the frequency range exceeding 0 Hz but not exceeding 500 Hz and designed for measuring acoustic
        fields generated by a hydro-flow around propulsion system models.


8C      Materials
8C001   'Syntactic foam' designed for underwater use and having all of the following:
        N.B.   See also 8A002.a.4.
        a.     Designed for marine depths exceeding 1 000 m; and
        b.     A density less than 561 kg/m3.
        Technical Note:
        'Syntactic foam' consists of hollow spheres of plastic or glass embedded in a resin "matrix".


8D      Software
8D001   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production" or "use" of equipment
        or materials, specified in 8A, 8B or 8C.
8D002   Specific "software" specially designed or modified for the "development", "production", repair,
        overhaul or refurbishing (re-machining) of propellers specially designed for underwater noise reduction.




                                                                                                                   227
                                     CATEGORY 8 - MARINE

8E      Technology
8E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production" of
        equipment or materials, specified in 8A, 8B or 8C.
8E002   Other "technology" as follows:
        a.    "Technology" for the "development", "production", repair, overhaul or refurbishing (re-
              machining) of propellers specially designed for underwater noise reduction;
        b.    "Technology" for the overhaul or refurbishing of equipment specified in 8A001, 8A002.b.,
              8A002.j., 8A002.o. or 8A002.p.
        c.    "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" or "production"
              of any of the following:
              1.     Surface-effect vehicles (fully skirted variety) having all of the following:
                     a.     Maximum design speed, fully loaded, exceeding 30 knots in a significant wave
                            height of 1,25 m or more;
                     b.     Cushion pressure exceeding 3 830 Pa; and
                     c.     Light-ship-to-full-load displacement ratio of less than 0,70;
              2.     Surface-effect vehicles (rigid sidewalls) with a maximum design speed, fully loaded,
                     exceeding 40 knots in a significant wave height of 3,25 m or more;
              3.     Hydrofoil vessels with active systems for automatically controlling foil systems, with a
                     maximum design speed, fully loaded, of 40 knots or more in a significant wave height of
                     3,25 m or more; or
              4.     'Small waterplane area vessels' having any of the following:
                     a.     Full load displacement exceeding 500 tonnes with a maximum design speed, fully
                            loaded, exceeding 35 knots in a significant wave height of 3,25 m or more; or
                     b.     Full load displacement exceeding 1 500 tonnes with a maximum design speed,
                            fully loaded, exceeding 25 knots in a significant wave height of 4 m or more.
                     Technical Note:
                     A 'small waterplane area vessel' is defined by the following formula: waterplane area at
                     an operational design draft less than 2 x (displaced volume at the operational design
                     draft)2/3.

9A001   Aero gas turbine engines having any of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A101.
        a.     Incorporating any of the "technologies" specified in 9E003.a., 9E003.h. or 9E003.i.; or
               Note 1:         9A001.a. does not control aero gas turbine engines which meet all of the
                               following:
                                          a.    Certified by the civil aviation authorities of one or more EU Member States
                                                 or Wassenaar Arrangement Participating States; and
                                          b.    Intended to power non-military manned "aircraft" for which any of the
                                                 following has been issued by civil aviation authorities of one or more EU
                                                 Member States or Wassenaar Arrangement Participating States for the
                                                 "aircraft" with this specific engine type:
                                                 1.      A civil type certificate; or
                                                 2.      An equivalent document recognized by the International Civil
                                                        Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
               Note 2:         9A001.a. does not control aero gas turbine engines designed for Auxiliary Power
                               Units (APUs) approved by the civil aviation authority in a EU Member States or
                               Wassenaar Arrangement Participating States.
        b.     Designed to power an "aircraft" to cruise at Mach 1 or higher, for more than thirty minutes.

9A002   'Marine gas turbine engines' designed to use liquid fuel and having all of the following, and specially
        designed assemblies and components therefor:
        a.     Maximum continuous power when operating in "steady state mode" at standard reference
               conditions specified by ISO 3977-2:1997 (or national equivalent) of 24 245 kW or more; and
        b.     'Corrected specific fuel consumption' not exceeding 0,219 kg/kWh at 35% of the maximum
               continuous power when using liquid fuel.
        Note: The term 'marine gas turbine engines' includes those industrial, or aero-derivative, gas turbine
              engines adapted for a ship's electric power generation or propulsion.
        Technical Note:
        For the purposes of 9A002, 'corrected specific fuel consumption' is the specific fuel consumption of the
        engine corrected to a marine distillate liquid fuel having a net specific energy (i.e. net heating value) of
        42MJ/kg (ISO 3977-2:1997).
9A003   Specially designed assemblies or components, incorporating any of the "technologies" specified in
        9E003.a., 9E003.h. or 9E003.i., for any of the following aero gas turbine engines:
        a.     Specified in 9A001; or
        b.     Whose design or production origins are either non-EU Member States or Wassenaar
               Arrangement Participating States or unknown to the manufacturer.
9A004   Space launch vehicles, "spacecraft", "spacecraft buses", "spacecraft payloads", "spacecraft" on-board
        systems or equipment, terrestrial equipment, and air-launch platforms as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A104.
        a.     Space launch vehicles;
        b.     "Spacecraft";

        c.     "Spacecraft buses";

        d.     "Spacecraft payloads" incorporating items specified in 3A001.b.1.a.4., 3A002.g., 5A001.a.1.,
               5A001.b.3., 5A002.c., 5A002.e., 6A002.a.1., 6A002.a.2., 6A002.b., 6A002.d., 6A003.b.,
               6A004.c., 6A004.e., 6A008.d., 6A008.e., 6A008.k., 6A008.l. or 9A010.c.;
        e.     On-board systems or equipment, specially designed for "spacecraft" and having any of the
               following functions:
               1.     'Command and telemetry data handling';
                      Note: For the purpose of 9A004.e.1., 'command and telemetry data handling' includes
                            bus data management, storage, and processing.
               2.     'Payload data handling'; or
                      Note: For the purpose of 9A004.e.2., 'payload data handling' includes payload data
                            management, storage, and processing.
               3.     'Attitude and orbit control';
                      Note: For the purpose of 9A004.e.3., 'attitude and orbit control' includes sensing and
                            actuation to determine and control the position and orientation of a "spacecraft".
        N.B.   For equipment specially designed for military use, SEE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
        f.     Terrestrial equipment specially designed for "spacecraft", as follows:
               1.     Telemetry and telecommand equipment specially designed for any of the following data
                      processing functions:
                      a.     Telemetry data processing of frame synchronisation and error corrections, for
                             monitoring of operational status (also known as health and safe status) of the
                             "spacecraft bus"; or
                      b.     Command data processing for formatting command data being sent to the
                             "spacecraft" to control the "spacecraft bus";
               2.     Simulators specially designed for 'verification of operational procedures' of "spacecraft";
                      Technical Note:
                      For the purposes of 9A004.f.2., 'verification of operational procedures' is any of the
                      following:
                                                 1.     Command sequence confirmation;
                                                 2.     Operational training;
                                                 3.     Operational rehearsals; or
                                                 4.     Operational analysis.
        g.     "Aircraft" specially designed or modified to be air-launch platforms for space launch vehicles;
        h.     "Sub-orbital craft".
9A005   Liquid rocket propulsion systems containing any of the systems or components, specified in 9A006.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A105 AND 9A119.
9A006   Systems and components, specially designed for liquid rocket propulsion systems, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A106, 9A108 AND 9A120.
        a.     Cryogenic refrigerators, flightweight dewars, cryogenic heat pipes or cryogenic systems,
               specially designed for use in space vehicles and capable of restricting cryogenic fluid losses to
               less than 30% per year;
        b.     Cryogenic containers or closed-cycle refrigeration systems, capable of providing temperatures
               of 100 K (-173°C) or less for "aircraft" capable of sustained flight at speeds exceeding Mach 3,
               launch vehicles or "spacecraft";


                                                                                                                    230
                     CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

        c.     Slush hydrogen storage or transfer systems;
        d.     High pressure (exceeding 17,5 MPa) turbo pumps, pump components or their associated gas
               generator or expander cycle turbine drive systems;
9A006 continued

        e.     High-pressure (exceeding 10,6 MPa) thrust chambers and nozzles therefor;
        f.     Propellant storage systems using the principle of capillary containment or positive expulsion
               (i.e., with flexible bladders);
        g.     Liquid propellant injectors with individual orifices of 0,381 mm or smaller in diameter (an area
               of 1,14 x 10-3 cm2 or smaller for non-circular orifices) and specially designed for liquid rocket
               engines;
        h.     One-piece carbon-carbon thrust chambers or one-piece carbon-carbon exit cones, with densities
               exceeding 1,4 g/cm3 and tensile strengths exceeding 48 MPa.
9A007   Solid rocket propulsion systems having any of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A107 AND 9A119.
        a.     Total impulse capacity exceeding 1,1 MNs;
        b.     Specific impulse of 2,4 kNs/kg or more, when the nozzle flow is expanded to ambient sea level
               conditions for an adjusted chamber pressure of 7 MPa;
        c.     Stage mass fractions exceeding 88% and propellant solid loadings exceeding 86%;
        d.     Components specified in 9A008; or
        e.     Insulation and propellant bonding systems, using direct-bonded motor designs to provide a
               'strong mechanical bond' or a barrier to chemical migration between the solid propellant and case
               insulation material.
               Technical Note:
               'Strong mechanical bond' means bond strength equal to or more than propellant strength.
9A008   Components specially designed for solid rocket propulsion systems, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A108.
        a.     Insulation and propellant bonding systems, using liners to provide a 'strong mechanical bond' or
               a barrier to chemical migration between the solid propellant and case insulation material;
               Technical Note:
               'Strong mechanical bond' means bond strength equal to or more than propellant strength.
        b.     Filament-wound "composite" motor cases exceeding 0,61 m in diameter or having 'structural
               efficiency ratios (PV/W)' exceeding 25 km;
               Technical Note:
               'Structural efficiency ratio (PV/W)' is the burst pressure (P) multiplied by the vessel volume (V)
               divided by the total pressure vessel weight (W).
        c.     Nozzles with thrust levels exceeding 45 kN or nozzle throat erosion rates of less than
               0,075 mm/s;
        d.     Movable nozzle or secondary fluid injection thrust vector control systems, capable of any of the
               following:
               1.     Omni-axial movement exceeding ± 5°;
               2.     Angular vector rotations of 20°/s or more; or
               3.     Angular vector accelerations of 40°/s2 or more.




                                                                                                                    231
                     CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

9A009   Hybrid rocket propulsion systems having any of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A109 AND 9A119.
        a.     Total impulse capacity exceeding 1,1 MNs; or
        b.     Thrust levels exceeding 220 kN in vacuum exit conditions.
9A010   Specially designed components, systems and structures, for launch vehicles, launch vehicle propulsion
        systems or "spacecraft", as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1A002 AND 9A110.
        a.     Components and structures, each exceeding 10 kg and specially designed for launch vehicles
               manufactured using any of the following:
               1.     "Composite" materials consisting of "fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in
                      1C010.e. and resins specified in 1C008 or 1C009.b.;
               2.     Metal "matrix" "composites" reinforced by any of the following:
                      a.     Materials specified in 1C007;
                      b.     "Fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010; or
                      c.     Aluminides specified in 1C002.a.; or
               3.     Ceramic "matrix" "composite" materials specified in 1C007;
                      Note: The weight cut-off is not relevant for nose cones.
        b.     Components and structures, specially designed for launch vehicle propulsion systems specified
               in 9A005 to 9A009 manufactured using any of the following:
               1.     "Fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010.e. and resins specified in 1C008 or
                      1C009.b.;
               2.     Metal "matrix" "composites" reinforced by any of the following:
                      a.     Materials specified in 1C007;
                      b.     "Fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010; or
                      c.     Aluminides specified in 1C002.a.; or
               3.     Ceramic "matrix" "composite" materials specified in 1C007;
        c.     Structural components and isolation systems, specially designed to control actively the dynamic
               response or distortion of "spacecraft" structures;
        d.     Pulsed liquid rocket engines with thrust-to-weight ratios equal to or more than 1 kN/kg and a
               'response time' of less than 30 ms.
               Technical Note:
               For the purposes of 9A010.d., 'response time' is the time required to achieve 90% of total rated
               thrust from start-up.
9A011   Ramjet, scramjet or 'combined cycle engines', and specially designed components therefor.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A111 AND 9A118.
        Technical Note:
        For the purposes of 9A011, 'combined cycle engines' combine two or more of the following types of
        engines:
              –      Gas turbine engine (turbojet, turboprop and turbofan);
              –      Ramjet or scramjet;
              –      Rocket motor or engine (liquid/gel/solid-propellant and hybrid).
9A012   "Unmanned aerial vehicles" ("UAVs"), unmanned "airships", related equipment and components, as
        follows:



                                                                                                                  232
                     CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

        N.B. 1 SEE ALSO 9A112.
        N.B. 2 For "UAVs" that are "sub-orbital craft", see 9A004.h.
        a.     "UAVs" or unmanned "airships", designed to have controlled flight out of the direct 'natural
                      vision' of the 'operator' and having any of the following:
               1.     Having all of the following:
                      a.     A maximum 'endurance' greater than or equal to 30 minutes but less than 1 hour;
                             and
9A012 continued

                      b.     Designed to take-off and have stable controlled flight in wind gusts equal to or
                             exceeding 46,3 km/h (25 knots); or
               2.     A maximum 'endurance' of 1 hour or greater;
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purposes of 9A012.a., 'operator' is a person who initiates or commands the
                                          "UAV" or unmanned "airship" flight.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 9A012.a., 'endurance' is to be calculated for ISA conditions (ISO
                                          2533:1975) at sea level in zero wind.
                                   3.    For the purposes of 9A012.a., 'natural vision' means unaided human sight, with or
                                          without corrective lenses.
        b.     Related equipment and components, as follows:
               1.     Not used;
               2.     Not used;
               3.     Equipment or components, specially designed to convert a manned "aircraft" or manned
                      "airship", to a "UAV" or unmanned "airship", specified in 9A012.a.;
               4.     Air breathing reciprocating or rotary internal combustion type engines, specially designed
                      or modified to propel "UAVs" or unmanned "airships", at altitudes above 15 240 metres
                      (50 000 feet).
9A101   Turbojet and turbofan engines, other than those specified in 9A001, as follows;
        a.     Engines having all of the following characteristics:
               1.     'Maximum thrust value' greater than 400 N excluding civil certified engines with a
                      'maximum thrust value' greater than 8 890 N;
               2.     Specific fuel consumption of 0,15 kg N-1 h-1 or less;
               3.     'Dry weight' less than 750 kg; and
               4.     'First-stage rotor diameter' less than 1 m;
               Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purpose of 9A101.a.1., 'maximum thrust value' is the manufacturer’s
                                          demonstrated maximum thrust for the engine type un-installed at sea level static
                                          conditions using the ICAO standard atmosphere. The civil type certified thrust value will
                                          be equal to or less than the manufacturer’s demonstrated maximum thrust for the engine
                                          type un-installed.
                                   2.    Specific fuel consumption is determined at maximum continuous thrust for engine type
                                          un-installed at sea level static conditions using the ICAO standard atmosphere.
                                   3.    'Dry weight' is the weight of the engine without fluids (fuel, hydraulic fluid, oil, etc.) and
                                          does not include the nacelle (housing).
                                   4.    'First-stage rotor diameter' is the diameter of the first rotating stage of the engine,
                                          whether a fan or compressor, measured at the leading edge of the blade tips.
        b.     Engines designed or modified for use in "missiles" or unmanned aerial vehicles specified in 9A012 or 9A112.a.


                                                                                                                      233
                     CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

9A102   'Turboprop engine systems' specially designed for unmanned aerial vehicles specified in 9A012 or
        9A112.a., and specially designed components therefor, having a 'maximum power' greater than 10 kW.
        Note: 9A102 does not control civil certified engines.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    For the purposes of 9A102, a 'turboprop engine system' incorporates all of the following:
                                          a.     Turboshaft engine; and
                                          b.     Power transmission system to transfer the power to a propeller.
                                   2.    For the purposes of 9A102, the 'maximum power' is achieved un-installed at sea level static
                                          conditions using ICAO standard atmosphere.




                                                                                                             234
                     CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

9A104   Sounding rockets, capable of a range of at least 300 km.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A004.


9A105   Liquid propellant rocket engines or gel propellant rocket motors, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A119.
        a.     Liquid propellant rocket engines or gel propellant rocket motors, usable in "missiles", other than
               those specified in 9A005, integrated, or designed or modified to be integrated, into a liquid
               propellant or gel propellant propulsion system which has a total impulse capacity equal to or
               greater than 1,1 MNs;
        b.     Liquid propellant rocket engines or gel propellant rocket motors, usable in complete rocket
               systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, capable of a range of 300 km, other than those specified in 9A005 or 9A105.a., integrated, or designed or modified to be integrated, into a liquid propellant
               or gel propellant propulsion system which has a total impulse capacity equal to or greater than
               0,841 MNs.
9A106   Systems or components, other than those specified in 9A006 as follows, specially designed for liquid
        rocket propulsion or gel propellant rocket systems:
        a.     Not used;
        b.     Not used;
        c.     Thrust vector control sub-systems, usable in "missiles";
               Technical Note:
                                          Examples of methods of achieving thrust vector control specified in 9A106.c. are:
                                          1.    Flexible nozzle;
                                          2.    Fluid or secondary gas injection;
                                          3.    Movable engine or nozzle;
                                          4.    Deflection of exhaust gas stream (jet vanes or probes); or
                                          5.    Thrust tabs.
        d.     Liquid, slurry and gel propellant (including oxidisers) control systems, and specially designed
               components therefor, usable in "missiles", designed or modified to operate in vibration
               environments greater than 10 g rms between 20 Hz and 2 kHz;
               Note: The only servo valves, pumps and gas turbines specified in 9A106.d., are the following:
                                          a.    Servo valves designed for flow rates equal to or greater than 24 litres per minute, at an
                                                 absolute pressure equal to or greater than 7 MPa, that have an actuator response time of
                                                 less than 100 ms;
                                          b.    Pumps, for liquid propellants, with shaft speeds equal to or greater than 8 000 r.p.m. at
                                                 a maximum operating mode or with discharge pressures equal to or greater than 7 MPa;
                                          c.    Gas turbines, for liquid propellant turbopumps, with shaft speeds equal to or greater than
                                                 8 000 r.p.m. at the maximum operating mode.
        e.     Combustion chambers and nozzles for liquid propellant rocket engines or gel propellant rocket
               motors specified in 9A005 or 9A105.
9A107   Solid propellant rocket motors, usable in complete rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, capable
        of a range of 300 km, other than those specified in 9A007, having total impulse capacity equal to or
        greater than 0,841 MNs.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A119.
9A108   Components, other than those specified in 9A008, as follows, specially designed for solid and hybrid
        rocket propulsion systems:
        a.     Rocket motor cases and "insulation" components therefor, usable in subsystems specified in 9A007, 9A009, 9A107 or 9A109.a.;
        b.     Rocket nozzles, usable in subsystems specified in 9A007, 9A009, 9A107 or 9A109.a.;
 
        c.     Thrust vector control sub-systems, usable in "missiles".
               Technical Note:
                                          Examples of methods of achieving thrust vector control specified in 9A108.c. are:
                                          1.   Flexible nozzle;
                                          2.   Fluid or secondary gas injection;
                                          3.   Movable engine or nozzle;
                                          4.   Deflection of exhaust gas stream (jet vanes or probes); or
                                          5.   Thrust tabs.
9A109    Hybrid rocket motors and specially designed components as follows:
         a.     Hybrid rocket motors usable in complete rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, capable of
                300 km, other than those specified in 9A009, having a total impulse capacity equal to or greater
                than 0,841 MNs, and specially designed components therefor;
         b.     Specially designed components for hybrid rocket motors specified in 9A009 that are usable in
                "missiles".
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A009 AND 9A119.
9A110    Composite structures, laminates and manufactures thereof, other than those specified in 9A010,
         specially designed for use in 'missiles' or the subsystems specified in 9A005, 9A007, 9A105, 9A106.c.,
         9A107, 9A108.c., 9A116 or 9A119.
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 1A002.
         Technical Note:
         In 9A110 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
         range exceeding 300 km.
9A111    Pulse jet or detonation engines, usable in "missiles" or unmanned aerial vehicles specified in 9A012 or
         9A112.a., and specially designed components therefor.
         N.B.   SEE ALSO 9A011 AND 9A118.
         Technical Note:
         In 9A111 detonation engines utilise detonation to produce a rise in effective pressure across the
         combustion chamber. Examples of detonation engines include pulse detonation engines, rotating
         detonation engines or continuous wave detonation engines.
9A112    "Unmanned aerial vehicles" ("UAVs"), other than those specified in 9A012, as follows:
         a.     "Unmanned aerial vehicles" ("UAVs") capable of a range of 300 km;
         b.     "Unmanned aerial vehicles" ("UAVs") having all of the following:
                1.     Having any of the following:
                       a.     An autonomous flight control and navigation capability; or
                       b.     Capability of controlled flight out of the direct vision range involving a human
                              operator; and
                2.     Having any of the following:
                       a.     Incorporating an aerosol dispensing system/mechanism with a capacity greater
                              than 20 litres; or
                       b.     Designed or modified to incorporate an aerosol dispensing system/mechanism
                              with a capacity greater than 20 litres.
                Technical Notes:
                                   1.    An aerosol consists of particulate or liquids other than fuel components, by products or
                                                        additives, as part of the payload to be dispersed in the atmosphere. Examples of aerosols
                                                        include pesticides for crop dusting and dry chemicals for cloud seeding.


                                   2.   An aerosol dispensing system/mechanism contains all those devices (mechanical,
                                   electrical, hydraulic, etc.), which are necessary for storage and dispersion of an aerosol
                                   into the atmosphere. This includes the possibility of aerosol injection into the combustion
                                   exhaust vapour and into the propeller slip stream.



9A115   Launch support equipment as follows:
        a.     Apparatus and devices for handling, control, activation or launching, designed or modified for
               space launch vehicles specified in 9A004, sounding rockets specified in 9A104 or 'missiles';
               Technical Note:
               In 9A115.a. 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems
               capable of a range exceeding 300 km.
        b.     Vehicles for transport, handling, control, activation or launching, designed or modified for space
               launch vehicles specified in 9A004, sounding rockets specified in 9A104 or "missiles".
9A116   Reentry vehicles, usable in "missiles", and equipment designed or modified therefor, as follows:
        a.     Reentry vehicles;
        b.     Heat shields and components therefor, fabricated of ceramic or ablative materials;
        c.     Heat sinks and components therefor, fabricated of light-weight, high heat capacity materials;
        d.     Electronic equipment specially designed for reentry vehicles.
9A117   Staging mechanisms, separation mechanisms, and interstages, usable in "missiles".
        N.B. SEE ALSO 9A121.
9A118   Devices to regulate combustion usable in engines, which are usable in "missiles" or unmanned aerial
        vehicles specified in 9A012 or 9A112.a., specified in 9A011 or 9A111.
9A119   Individual rocket stages, usable in complete rocket systems or unmanned aerial vehicles, capable of a
        range of 300 km, other than those specified in 9A005, 9A007, 9A009, 9A105, 9A107 and 9A109.
9A120   Liquid or gel propellant tanks, other than those specified in 9A006, specially designed for propellants
        specified in 1C111 or 'other liquid or gel propellants' used in rocket systems capable of delivering at
        least a 500 kg payload to a range of at least 300 km.
        Note: In 9A120 'other liquid or gel propellants' includes, but is not limited to, propellants specified in
              THE MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
9A121   Umbilical and interstage electrical connectors specially designed for "missiles", space launch vehicles
        specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets specified in 9A104.
        Technical Note:
        Interstage connectors referred to in 9A121 also include electrical connectors installed between the
        "missile", space launch vehicle or sounding rocket and their payload.
9A350   Spraying or fogging systems, specially designed or modified for fitting to aircraft, "lighter-than-air
        vehicles" or unmanned aerial vehicles, and specially designed components therefor, as follows:
        a.     Complete spraying or fogging systems capable of delivering, from a liquid suspension, an initial
               droplet 'VMD' of less than 50 µm at a flow rate of greater than two litres per minute;
        b.     Spray booms or arrays of aerosol generating units capable of delivering, from a liquid
               suspension, an initial droplet 'VMD' of less than 50 µm at a flow rate of greater than two litres
               per minute;
        c.     Aerosol generating units specially designed for fitting to systems specified in 9A350.a. and .b.
               Note: Aerosol generating units are devices specially designed or modified for fitting to aircraft
                     such as nozzles, rotary drum atomizers and similar devices.
        Note: 9A350 does not control spraying or fogging systems and components that are demonstrated not
              to be capable of delivering biological agents in the form of infectious aerosols.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    Droplet size for spray equipment or nozzles specially designed for use on aircraft, "lighter-than-
                                          air vehicles" or unmanned aerial vehicles should be measured using either of the following:
                                          a.     Doppler laser method;
                                          b.     Forward laser diffraction method.

                                   2.     In 9A350 'VMD' means Volume Median Diameter and for water-based systems this equates to
                                          Mass Median Diameter (MMD).
9B      Test, Inspection and Production Equipment
9B001   Manufacturing equipment, tooling or fixtures, as follows:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 2B226
        a.     Directional solidification or single crystal casting equipment designed for "superalloys";
        b.     Casting tooling, specially designed for manufacturing gas turbine engine blades, vanes or "tip
               shrouds", manufactured from refractory metals or ceramics, as follows:
               1.      Cores;
               2.      Shells (moulds);
               3.      Combined core and shell (mould) units;
        c.     Directional-solidification or single-crystal additive-manufacturing equipment, specially
               designed for manufacturing gas turbine engine blades, vanes or "tip shrouds".
9B002   On-line (real time) control systems, instrumentation (including sensors) or automated data acquisition
        and processing equipment, having all of the following:
        a.     Specially designed for the "development" of gas turbine engines, assemblies or components; and
        b.     Incorporating any of the "technologies" specified in 9E003.h. or 9E003.i.
9B003   Equipment specially designed for the "production" or test of gas turbine brush seals designed to operate
        at tip speeds exceeding 335 m/s and temperatures in excess of 773 K (500°C), and specially designed
        components or accessories therefor.
9B004   Tools, dies or fixtures, for the solid state joining of "superalloy", titanium or intermetallic airfoil-to-disk
        combinations described in 9E003.a.3. or 9E003.a.6. for gas turbines.
9B005   On-line (real time) control systems, instrumentation (including sensors) or automated data acquisition
        and processing equipment, specially designed for use with any of the following:
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9B105.
        a.     Wind tunnels designed for speeds of Mach 1,2 or more;
               Note: 9B005.a. does not control wind tunnels specially designed for educational purposes and
                     having a 'test section size' (measured laterally) of less than 250 mm.
                       Technical Note:
                       'Test section size' means the diameter of the circle, or the side of the square, or the longest
                       side of the rectangle, at the largest test section location.
        b.     Devices for simulating flow-environments at speeds exceeding Mach 5, including hot-shot
               tunnels, plasma arc tunnels, shock tubes, shock tunnels, gas tunnels and light gas guns; or
        c.     Wind tunnels or devices, other than two-dimensional sections, capable of simulating Reynolds
                                               6
               number flows exceeding 25 x 10 .
9B006   Acoustic vibration test equipment capable of producing sound pressure levels of 160 dB or more
        (referenced to 20 µPa) with a rated output of 4 kW or more at a test cell temperature exceeding 1 273 K
        (1 000°C), and specially designed quartz heaters therefor.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9B106.
9B007   Equipment specially designed for inspecting the integrity of rocket motors and using Non-Destructive
        Test (NDT) techniques other than planar x-ray or basic physical or chemical analysis.
9B008   Direct measurement wall skin friction transducers specially designed to operate at a test flow total
        (stagnation) temperature exceeding 833 K (560°C).
9B009   Tooling specially designed for producing gas turbine engine powder metallurgy rotor components
        having all of the following:
 
        a.     Designed to operate at stress levels of 60% of Ultimate Tensile Strength (UTS) or more measured
               at a temperature of 873 K (600°C); and
        b.     Designed to operate at 873 K (600°C) or more.
        Note: 9B009 does not control tooling for the production of powder.
9B010   Equipment specially designed for the production of items specified in 9A012.
9B105   'Aerodynamic test facilities' for speeds of Mach 0,9 or more, usable for 'missiles' and their subsystems.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 9B005.
        Note: 9B105 does not control wind-tunnels for speeds of Mach 3 or less with dimension of the 'test
              cross section size' equal to or less than 250 mm.
        Technical Notes:
                                          1.    In 9B105 'aerodynamic test facilities' includes wind tunnels and shock tunnels for the study of
                                                 airflow over objects.
                                          2.    In Note to 9B105, 'test cross section size' means the diameter of the circle, or the side of the
                                                 square, or the longest side of the rectangle, or the major axis of the ellipse at the largest 'test
                                                 cross section' location. 'Test cross section' is the section perpendicular to the flow direction.
                                          3.    In 9B105 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable
                                                 of a range exceeding 300 km.
9B106   Environmental chambers and anechoic chambers, as follows:
        a.     Environmental chambers having all of the following:
               1.     Capable of simulating any of the following flight conditions:
                      a.      Altitude equal to or greater than 15 km; or
                      b.      Temperature range from below 223 K (-50oC) to above 398 K (125oC); and
               2.     Incorporating, or 'designed or modified' to incorporate, a shaker unit or other vibration
                      test equipment to produce vibration environments equal to or greater than 10 g rms,
                      measured 'bare table', between 20 Hz and 2 kHz while imparting forces equal to or greater
                      than 5 kN;
               Technical Notes:
                                          1.    9B106.a.2. describes systems that are capable of generating a vibration environment with
                                                 a single wave (e.g., a sine wave) and systems capable of generating a broad band random
                                                 vibration (i.e., power spectrum).
                                          2.    In 9B106.a.2., 'designed or modified' means the environmental chamber provides
                                                 appropriate interfaces (e.g., sealing devices) to incorporate a shaker unit or other
                                                 vibration test equipment as specified in 2B116.
                                          3.    In 9B106.a.2., 'bare table' means a flat table, or surface, with no fixture or fittings.
        b.     Environmental chambers capable of simulating the following flight conditions:
               1.     Acoustic environments at an overall sound pressure level of 140 dB or greater (referenced
                      to 20 µPa) or with a total rated acoustic power output of 4 kW or greater; and
               2.     Altitude equal to or greater than 15 km; or
               3.     Temperature range from below 223 K (-50oC) to above 398 K (125oC).
9B107   'Aerothermodynamic test facilities', usable for 'missiles', 'missile' rocket propulsion systems, and reentry
        vehicles and equipment specified in 9A116, having any of the following characteristics:
        a.     An electrical power supply equal to or greater than 5 MW; or
        b.     A gas supply total pressure equal to or greater than 3 MPa.
        Technical Notes:
                                   1.    'Aerothermodynamic test facilities' include plasma arc jet facilities and plasma wind tunnels for
                                          the study of thermal and mechanical effects of airflow on objects.

                                   2.     In 9B107 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable
                                          of a range exceeding 300 km.
9B115   Specially designed "production equipment" for the systems, sub-systems and components specified in 9A005 to 9A009, 9A011, 9A101, 9A102, 9A105 to 9A109, 9A111, 9A116 to 9A120.
9B116   Specially designed "production facilities" for the space launch vehicles specified in 9A004, or systems,
        sub-systems, and components specified in 9A005 to 9A009, 9A011, 9A101, 9A102, 9A104 to 9A109,
        9A111, 9A116 to 9A120 or 'missiles'.
        Technical Note:
        In 9B116 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.
9B117   Test benches or test stands for solid or liquid propellant rockets or rocket motors, having either of the
        following characteristics:
        a.     The capacity to handle more than 68 kN of thrust; or
        b.     Capable of simultaneously measuring the three axial thrust components.


9C      Materials
9C108   "Insulation" material in bulk form and "interior lining", other than those specified in 9A008, for rocket
        motor cases usable in "missiles" or specially designed for solid propellant rocket engines specified in 9A007 or 9A107.
9C110   Resin impregnated fibre prepregs and metal coated fibre preforms therefor, for composite structures,
        laminates and manufactures specified in 9A110, made either with organic matrix or metal matrix
        utilising fibrous or filamentary reinforcements having a "specific tensile strength" greater than
        7,62 x 104 m and a "specific modulus" greater than 3,18 x 106 m.
        N.B.   SEE ALSO 1C010 AND 1C210.
        Note: The only resin impregnated fibre prepregs specified in entry 9C110 are those using resins with
              a glass transition temperature (Tg), after cure, exceeding 418 K (145oC) as determined by ASTM
              D4065 or equivalent.
9D      Software
9D001   "Software", not specified in 9D003 or 9D004, specially designed or modified for the "development" of
        equipment or "technology", specified in 9A001 to 9A119, 9B or 9E003.
9D002   "Software", not specified in 9D003 or 9D004, specially designed or modified for the "production" of
        equipment specified in 9A001 to 9A119 or 9B.
9D003   "Software" incorporating "technology" specified in 9E003.h. and used in "FADEC Systems" for
        systems specified in 9A or equipment specified in 9B.
9D004   Other "software" as follows:
        a.     2D or 3D viscous "software", validated with wind tunnel or flight test data required for detailed
               engine flow modelling;
        b.     "Software" for testing aero gas turbine engines, assemblies or components, having all of the
               following:
               1.     Specially designed for testing any of the following:
                      a.     Aero gas turbine engines, assemblies or components, incorporating "technology"
                             specified in 9E003.a., 9E003.h. or 9E003.i.; or
                      b.     Multi-stage compressors providing either bypass or core flow, specially designed
                             for aero gas turbine engines incorporating "technology" specified in 9E003.a. or
                             9E003.h.; and
               2.     Specially designed for all of the following:

 
                     a.   Acquisition and processing of data, in real time; and
                     b.   Feedback control of the test article or test conditions (e.g. temperature, pressure,
                     flow rate) while the test is in progress;

 
9D004 continued

                     Note:     9D004.b. does not control software for operation of the test facility or operator safety
                            (e.g. overspeed shutdown, fire detection and suppression), or production, repair or
                            maintenance acceptance-testing limited to determining if the item has been properly
                            assembled or repaired.
                     c.      "Software" specially designed to control directional solidification or single crystal material
                            growth in equipment specified in 9B001.a. or 9B001.c.;
                     d.      Not used;
                     e.      "Software" specially designed or modified for the operation of items specified in 9A012;
                     f.      "Software" specially designed to design the internal cooling passages of aero gas turbine blades,
                            vans and "tip shrouds";
                     g.      "Software" having all of the following:
                            1.      Specially designed to predict aero thermal, aeromechanical and combustion conditions in
                                   aero gas turbine engines; and
                            2.      Theoretical modelling predictions of the aero thermal, aeromechanical and combustion
                                   conditions, which have been validated with actual aero gas turbine engine (experimental
                                   or production) performance data.
9D005   "Software" specially designed or modified for the operation of items specified in 9A004.e. or 9A004.f.
        N.B.    For "software" for items listed in 9A004.d. that are incorporated into "spacecrafts payloads",
                see the appropriate Categories.
9D101   "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of goods specified in 9B105, 9B106, 9B116 or
        9B117.
9D103   "Software" specially designed for modelling, simulation or design integration of the space launch
        vehicles specified in 9A004, sounding rockets specified in 9A104 or "missiles", or the subsystems
        specified in 9A005, 9A007, 9A105, 9A106.c., 9A107, 9A108.c., 9A116 or 9A119.
        Note: "Software" specified in 9D103 remains controlled when combined with specially designed
              hardware specified in 4A102.
9D104   "Software" as follows:
        a.      "Software" specially designed or modified for the "use" of goods specified in 9A001, 9A005,
                9A006.d., 9A006.g., 9A007.a., 9A009.a., 9A010.d., 9A011, 9A101, 9A102, 9A105, 9A106.d.,
                9A107, 9A109, 9A111, 9A115.a., 9A117 or 9A118.
        b.      "Software" specially designed or modified for the operation or maintenance of subsystems or
                equipment specified in 9A008.d., 9A106.c., 9A108.c. or 9A116.d.
9D105   "Software" specially designed or modified to coordinate the function of more than one subsystem, other
        than that specified in 9D004.e., in space launch vehicles specified in 9A004 or sounding rockets
        specified in 9A104 or 'missiles'
        Note:            9D105 includes "software" specially designed for a manned "aircraft" converted to
                operate as "unmanned aerial vehicle", as follows:
                                          a.     "Software" specially designed or modified to integrate the conversion equipment with the
                                                 "aircraft" system functions; and
                                          b.     "Software" specially designed or modified to operate the "aircraft" as an "unmanned
                                                 aerial vehicle".
        Technical Note:
        In 9D105 'missile' means complete rocket systems and unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a
        range exceeding 300 km.

9E      Technology
        Note: "Development" or "production" "technology" specified in 9E001 to 9E003 for gas turbine
              engines remains controlled when used for repair or overhaul. Excluded from control are:
              technical data, drawings or documentation for maintenance activities directly associated with
              calibration, removal or replacement of damaged or unserviceable line replaceable units,
              including replacement of whole engines or engine modules.
9E001   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of equipment or
        "software", specified in 9A001.b., 9A004 to 9A012, 9A350, 9B or 9D.
9E002   "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of equipment specified
        in 9A001.b., 9A004 to 9A011, 9A350 or 9B.
        N.B.   For "technology" for the repair of controlled structures, laminates or materials, see 1E002.f.
9E003   Other "technology" as follows:
        a.     "Technology" "required" for the "development" or "production" of any of the following gas
               turbine engine components or systems:
               1.     Gas turbine blades, vanes or "tip shrouds", made from directionally solidified (DS) or
                      single crystal (SC) alloys and having (in the 001 Miller Index Direction) a stress-rupture
                      life exceeding 400 hours at 1 273 K (1 000°C) at a stress of 200 MPa, based on the average
                      property values;
                      Technical Note:
                      For the purposes of 9E003.a.1., stress-rupture life testing is typically conducted on a test
                      specimen.
               2.     Combustors having any of the following:
                      a.     'Thermally decoupled liners' designed to operate at 'combustor exit temperature'
                             exceeding 1 883K (1 610°C);
                      b.     Non-metallic liners;
                      c.     Non-metallic shells; or
                      d.     Liners designed to operate at 'combustor exit temperature' exceeding 1 883 K
                             (1 610°C) and having holes that meet the parameters specified in 9E003.c.;
                      Note: The "required" "technology" for holes in 9E003.a.2. is limited to the derivation of
                            the geometry and location of the holes.
                      Technical Notes:
                                                 1.    'Thermally decoupled liners' are liners that feature at least a support structure
                                                        designed to carry mechanical loads and a combustion facing structure designed
                                                        to protect the support structure from the heat of combustion. The combustion
                                                        facing structure and support structure have independent thermal displacement
                                                        (mechanical displacement due to thermal load) with respect to one another, i.e.
                                                        they are thermally decoupled.
                                                 2.     'Combustor exit temperature' is the bulk average gas path total (stagnation)
                                                        temperature between the combustor exit plane and the leading edge of the turbine
                                                        inlet guide vane (i.e., measured at engine station T40 as defined in SAE ARP 755A)
                                                        when the engine is running in a "steady state mode" of operation at the certificated
                                                        maximum continuous operating temperature.
               N.B.   See 9E003.c. for "technology" "required" for manufacturing cooling holes.
               3.     Components that are any of the following:
                      a.     Manufactured from organic "composite" materials designed to operate above
                             588 K (315°C);
                      b.     Manufactured from any of the following:



                                                                                                                     244
                      CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

                             1.     Metal "matrix" "composites" reinforced by any of the following:
                                    a.      Materials specified in 1C007;
                                    b.      "Fibrous or filamentary materials" specified in 1C010; or
                                    c.      Aluminides specified in 1C002.a.; or
                             2.     Ceramic "matrix" "composites" specified in 1C007.; or
                      c.     Stators, vanes, blades, tip seals (shrouds), rotating blings, rotating blisks, or
                             'splitter ducts', that are all of the following:
                             1.     Not specified in 9E003.a.3.a.;
                             2.     Designed for compressors or fans; and
                             3.     Manufactured from material specified in 1C010.e. with resins specified in
                                    1C008;
                             Technical Note:
                             A 'splitter duct' performs the initial separation of the air-mass flow between the
                             bypass and core sections of the engine.
                4.    Uncooled turbine blades, vanes or "tip-shrouds", designed to operate at a 'gas path
                      temperature' of 1 373 K (1 100°C) or more;
                5.    Cooled turbine blades, vanes, "tip-shrouds" other than those described in 9E003.a.1.,
                      designed to operate at a 'gas path temperature' of 1 693 K (1 420°C) or more;
                      Technical Note:
                      'Gas path temperature' is the bulk average gas path total (stagnation) temperature at the
                      leading edge plane of the turbine component when the engine is running in a "steady state
                      mode" of operation at the certificated or specified maximum continuous operating
                      temperature.
                6.    Airfoil-to-disk blade combinations using solid state joining;
                7.    Not used;
                8.    'Damage tolerant' gas turbine engine rotor components using powder metallurgy materials
                      specified in 1C002.b.; or
                      Technical Note:
                      'Damage tolerant' components are designed using methodology and substantiation to
                      predict and limit crack growth.
                9.    Not used;
                10.   Not used;
                11.   'Fan blades' having all of the following:
                      a.     20% or more of the total volume being one or more closed cavities containing
                             vacuum or gas only; and
                      b.     One or more closed cavities having a volume of 5 cm 3 or larger;
                      Technical Note:
                      For the purposes of 9E003.a.11., a 'fan blade' is the aerofoil portion of the rotating stage
                      or stages, which provide both compressor and bypass flow in a gas turbine engine.
           b.   "Technology" "required" for the "development" or "production" of any of the following:
                1.    Wind tunnel aero-models equipped with non-intrusive sensors capable of transmitting
                      data from the sensors to the data acquisition system; or
                2.    "Composite" propeller blades or propfans, capable of absorbing more than 2 000 kW at
                      flight speeds exceeding Mach 0,55;


                                                                                                                     245
                     CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

         c.    "Technology" "required" for manufacturing cooling holes, in gas turbine engine components
               incorporating any of the "technologies" specified in 9E003.a.1., 9E003.a.2. or 9E003.a.5., and
               having any of the following:
               1.     Having all of the following:
9E003   continued

                      a.     Minimum 'cross-sectional area' less than 0,45 mm2;
                      b.     'Hole shape ratio' greater than 4,52; and
                      c.     'Incidence angle' equal to or less than 25°; or
               2.     Having all of the following:
                      a.     Minimum 'cross-sectional area' less than 0,12 mm2;
                      b.     'Hole shape ratio' greater than 5,65; and
                      c.     'Incidence angle' more than 25°;
               Note: 9E003.c. does not control "technology" for manufacturing constant radius cylindrical
                     holes that are straight through and enter and exit on the external surfaces of the
                     component.
               Technical Notes:
                                                 1.    For the purposes of 9E003.c., the 'cross-sectional area' is the area of the hole in the plane
                                                        perpendicular to the hole axis.
                                                 2.    For the purposes of 9E003.c., 'hole shape ratio' is the nominal length of the axis of the
                                                        hole divided by the square root of its minimum 'cross-sectional area'.
                                                 3.    For the purposes of 9E003.c., 'incidence angle' is the acute angle measured between the
                                                        plane tangential to the aerofoil surface and the hole axis at the point where the hole axis
                                                        enters the aerofoil surface.
                                                 4.    Methods for manufacturing holes in 9E003.c. include "laser" beam machining, water jet
                                                        machining, Electro-Chemical Machining (ECM) or Electrical Discharge Machining
                                                        (EDM).
         d.    "Technology" "required" for the "development" or "production" of helicopter power transfer
               systems or tilt rotor or tilt wing "aircraft" power transfer systems;
         e.    "Technology" for the "development" or "production" of reciprocating diesel engine ground
               vehicle propulsion systems having all of the following:
               1.     'Box volume' of 1,2 m3 or less;
               2.     An overall power output of more than 750 kW based on 80/1269/EEC, ISO 2534 or
                      national equivalents; and
                                                              3
               3.     Power density of more than 700 kW/m of 'box volume';
               Technical Note:
               'Box volume' in 9E003.e. is the product of three perpendicular dimensions measured in the
               following way:
                                                 Length: The length of the crankshaft from front flange to flywheel face;
                                                 Width:    The widest of any of the following:
                                                        a.     The outside dimension from valve cover to valve cover;
                                                        b.     The dimensions of the outside edges of the cylinder heads; or
                                                        c.     The diameter of the flywheel housing;
                                                 Height: The largest of any of the following:
                                                        a.     The dimension of the crankshaft centre-line to the top plane of the valve
                                                               cover (or cylinder head) plus twice the stroke; or
                                                        b.     The diameter of the flywheel housing.
         f.    "Technology" "required" for the "production" of specially designed components for high output
               diesel engines, as follows:


                                                                                                                     246
                      CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

                1.     "Technology" "required" for the "production" of engine systems having all of the
                       following components employing ceramics materials specified in 1C007:
                       a.     Cylinder liners;
                       b.     Pistons;
                       c.     Cylinder heads; and
9E003.f.        continued

                       d.     One or more other components (including exhaust ports, turbochargers, valve
                              guides, valve assemblies or insulated fuel injectors);
                2.     "Technology" "required" for the "production" of turbocharger systems with single-stage
                       compressors and having all of the following:
                       a.     Operating at pressure ratios of 4:1 or higher;
                       b.     Mass flow in the range from 30 to 130 kg per minute; and
                       c.     Variable flow area capability within the compressor or turbine sections;
                3.     "Technology" "required" for the "production" of fuel injection systems with a specially
                       designed multifuel (e.g., diesel or jet fuel) capability covering a viscosity range from
                       diesel fuel (2,5 cSt at 310,8 K (37,8°C)) down to gasoline fuel (0,5 cSt at 310,8 K
                       (37,8°C)) and having all of the following:
                       a.     Injection amount in excess of 230 mm3 per injection per cylinder; and
                       b.     Electronic control features specially designed for switching governor
                              characteristics automatically depending on fuel property to provide the same
                              torque characteristics by using the appropriate sensors;
           g.   "Technology" "required" for the "development" or "production" of 'high output diesel engines'
                for solid, gas phase or liquid film (or combinations thereof) cylinder wall lubrication and
                permitting operation to temperatures exceeding 723 K (450°C), measured on the cylinder wall
                at the top limit of travel of the top ring of the piston;
                Technical Note:
                'High output diesel engines' are diesel engines with a specified brake mean effective pressure of
                1,8 MPa or more at a speed of 2 300 r.p.m., provided the rated speed is 2 300 r.p.m. or more.
           h.   "Technology" for gas turbine engine "FADEC systems" as follows:
                1.     "Development" "technology" for deriving the functional requirements for the components
                       necessary for the "FADEC system" to regulate engine thrust or shaft power (e.g., feedback
                       sensor time constants and accuracies, fuel valve slew rate);
                2.     "Development" or "production" "technology" for control and diagnostic components
                       unique to the "FADEC system" and used to regulate engine thrust or shaft power;
                3.     "Development" "technology" for the control law algorithms, including "source code",
                       unique to the "FADEC system" and used to regulate engine thrust or shaft power;
                Note: 9E003.h. does not control technical data related to engine-"aircraft" integration required
                      by the civil aviation authorities of one or more EU Member States or Wassenaar
                      Arrangement Participating States to be published for general airline use (e.g.,
                      installation manuals, operating instructions, instructions for continued airworthiness) or
                      interface functions (e.g., input/output processing, airframe thrust or shaft power
                      demand).
           i.   "Technology" for adjustable flow path systems designed to maintain engine stability for gas
                generator turbines, fan or power turbines, or propelling nozzles, as follows:
                1.     "Development" "technology" for deriving the functional requirements for the components
                       that maintain engine stability;



                                                                                                                    247
                        CATEGORY 9 – AEROSPACE AND PROPULSION

                 2.     "Development" or "production" "technology" for components unique to the adjustable
                        flow path system and that maintain engine stability;
                 3.     "Development" "technology" for the control law algorithms, including "source code",
                        unique to the adjustable flow path system and that maintain engine stability.
                 Note: 9E003.i. does not control "technology" for any of the following:
                                                        a.    Inlet guide vanes;
                                                        b.    Variable pitch fans or prop-fans;
                                                        c.    Variable compressor vanes;
                                                        d.    Compressor bleed valves; or
                                                        e.     Adjustable flow path geometry for reverse thrust.

          j.     "Technology" "required" for the "development" of wing-folding systems designed for fixed-
                 wing "aircraft" powered by gas turbine engines.
                 N.B.   For "technology" "required" for the "development" of wing-folding systems designed for
                        fixed-wing "aircraft" SEE ALSO MILITARY GOODS CONTROLS.
9E101     a.     "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "development" of goods
                 specified in 9A101, 9A102, 9A104 to 9A111, 9A112.a. or 9A115 to 9A121.
          b.     "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "production" of 'UAV's
                 specified in 9A012 or goods specified in 9A101, 9A102, 9A104 to 9A111, 9A112.a. or 9A115
                 to 9A121.
                 Technical Note:
                 In 9E101.b. 'UAV' means unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a range exceeding 300
                 km.
9E102     "Technology" according to the General Technology Note for the "use" of space launch vehicles
          specified in 9A004, goods specified in 9A005 to 9A011, 'UAV's specified in 9A012 or goods specified
          in 9A101, 9A102, 9A104 to 9A111, 9A112.a., 9A115 to 9A121, 9B105, 9B106, 9B115, 9B116, 9B117, 9D101 or 9D103.
          Technical Note:
          In 9E102 'UAV' means unmanned aerial vehicle systems capable of a range exceeding 300 km.